###tics00001###
### POETICS

###tics00002###
ARISTOTLE

###tics00003###
CHAPTER I  
Poetry consists of imitation. - Three differences between imitations. - Different kinds of poetry, according to the means of imitation.

Poetry consists of imitation.  
We will discuss both poetics itself and its species; explain the role of each and how to construct plots so that poetry is good; then what is the number and nature of the parts that compose it: we will similarly address other questions related to the same art, starting first with the primary ones in the natural order.

Three differences between the imitations.  
Epic poetry, tragic poetry, comedy, dithyrambic poetry, aulétique, citharistic, are mostly all, in summary, imitations. However, they differ from each other in three respects. Their elements of imitation are different; different are the objects imitated, and finally different are the procedures and the manner in which they imitate. Indeed, just as some imitate many things with colors and gestures, some through art, others by habit, and others still with the help of nature (alone), so among the aforementioned arts, all produce imitation through rhythm, language, and harmony, used separately or mixed.  
Thus, harmony and rhythm are used alone in aulétique, citharistic, and in other arts that have a similar role, such as that of the syrinx.  
Rhythm is the only element of imitation in the art of dancers, abstracting from harmony. Indeed, it is through figured rhythms that they imitate manners, passions, and actions.  
Epic poetry uses only pure and simple language, or meters, whether it mixes them together or uses only one type of meter, as has been done until now.

Different kinds of poetry, according to the means of imitation.  
We could not indeed give a (different) common name to the mimes of Sophron, those of Xenarchus, and the Socratic discourses, any more than to the works of imitation composed in trimeters, elegiac verses, or other similar meters, unless, linking the composition to the meter used, one calls the authors elegiac poets or epic poets and thus gives them the qualification of poets, not according to the kind of imitation they treat, but, indistinctly, because of the meter (they adopt). It is true that authors who present in verse some point of medicine or physics usually receive this qualification; but, between Homer and Empedocles, there is nothing in common except the use of meter. Thus it is fair to call the former a poet and the latter a physicist, rather than a poet. Similarly, if an author creates an imitation work by mixing various meters, like Chérémon in the Centaur, a rhapsody where meters of all kinds are mixed, he should still be called a poet. Such are the distinctions to be made in these matters.  
There are genres of poetry that use all the elements mentioned above, namely: rhythm, song, and meter; these are dithyrambic poetry, that of nomes, tragedy, and comedy. These genres differ in that some use these three things at once, and others use some of them separately.  
Thus are the differences that exist between the arts, regarding the practice of imitation.

###tics00004###
CHAPTER II

Different kinds of poetry, according to the objects imitated.  
As those who imitate people who act and since these will necessarily be good or bad (almost always manners relate to these two qualities, and all men, in terms of manners, differ by vice and virtue), it follows necessarily that we imitate people either better than they are in the world, or worse, or of the same moral value. Thus, among painters, Polygnotus represented better types, Pauson worse, and Dionysius similar types.  
However, it is evident that each genre of imitation will have the same differences and that, moreover, the imitation will be different in that it will imitate other things in the same way.  
Thus, in dance, in flute playing, in cithara playing, it is possible for these dissimilarities to occur. Similarly in language and in pure and simple versification. For example, Homer (presents us) with better types; Cleophon with similar ones; Hegemon, who first composed parodies, and Nicochares, the author of the Deliad, with types inferior to reality.  
Similarly, in the dithyramb and the nomes, one could imitate as Argus, Timotheus, and Philoxenus did, in the Cyclopes.  
The same difference separates tragedy and comedy. The latter tends to imitate worse beings; the former better beings than those of current reality.

###tics00005###
CHAPTER III

Different kinds of poetry according to the manner of imitation.  
The third difference lies in the manner of imitating each of these beings. Indeed, it is possible to imitate the same object, in the same circumstances, sometimes in the form of a narrative and by producing some other character, as Homer does, or with the character remaining the same, without changing it, or in such a way that the subjects of imitation are presented acting and accomplishing everything by themselves.  
Imitation thus involves the following three differences, as we said at the beginning: the circumstances in which it takes place, its object, its procedure.  
By one, Sophocles is an imitator in the same sense as Homer, for both imitate better beings; by the second, he is in the same sense as Aristophanes, for both imitate by putting their characters into action.  
Hence the name of dramas (d??µata), given to their works, because they imitate by acting.  
Hence also the Dorians claim tragedy and comedy, the Megarians, comedy, those of this country alleging that it was born under the reign of democratic government, and those of Sicily because the poet Epicharmus was originally from this island and lived well before Chionides and Magnes.  
Comedy is also claimed by those of the Peloponnese, who base it on an indication provided by the names; for they allege that in their country village is called [????], and among the Athenians deme; so that comedians are called thus not from the word (to mock), but because, rejected with contempt out of the city, they wander in the villages. They add that to act is called ????, and among the Athenians.  
Thus for the number and nature of the differences that imitation involves.

###tics00006###
CHAPTER IV  
Origin of poetry, - Primitive divisions of poetry. Epic; iambic (or satirical) poetry. - Origin of tragedy and comedy. - First progress of tragedy.

Origin of poetry.  
There are two causes, and two natural causes, that seem, absolutely speaking, to give birth to poetry.  
The fact of imitating is inherent in human nature from childhood; and what makes man differ from other animals is that he is the most inclined to imitation: the first knowledge he acquires, he owes to imitation, and everyone enjoys imitations.  
The proof is in what happens with artistic works; for the same things that we see with difficulty, we enjoy contemplating their exact representation, such as, for example, the forms of the vilest beasts and those of corpses.  
This is because learning is the most pleasant thing not only for philosophers but also for other men; only they take little part in this enjoyment.  
And indeed, if one enjoys seeing representations of objects, it is because this contemplation instructs us and makes us reason about the nature of each thing, as, for example, that such a man is such; especially since if, by chance, one has not foreseen what will happen, it will not be the representation that will produce the pleasure enjoyed, but rather the artifice or the color, or some other consideration.  
As the fact of imitating, as well as harmony and rhythm, are in our nature (I am not speaking of meters which are, obviously, parts of rhythms), from the beginning, men who had the most natural aptitude for these things have, through slow progression, given birth to poetry, starting with improvisations.

Primitive divisions of poetry.  
Poetry has been divided into various branches, according to the moral nature specific to each poet. Those who were more serious imitated beautiful actions and those of people of good character; those who were more vulgar, the actions of inferior men, casting blame on them as others celebrated their heroes with hymns and praises.  
Of poets before Homer, there is none whose composition we can cite in the genre of his; but there must have been a great number. From Homer, we can cite; such as, for example, his Margites and other similar poems, among which the iambic meter also took a suitable place; and even today it is called the iamb because it is in this meter that one exchanged insults.

Epic; iambic (or satirical) poetry.  
Among the ancients, there were heroic poets and iambic poets. And, just as Homer was mainly the poet of serious things (for he is unique not only for having done well but also for having produced imitations suitable for drama), he was also the first to show the forms of comedy, by dramatizing not only blame but also ridicule; indeed, the Margites is to comedies what the Iliad and the Odyssey are to tragedies.  
From the appearance of tragedy and comedy, poets attaching themselves to one or the other, according to their own character, some, as comic authors, replaced the iambic poets, and others, as tragedy producers, replaced the epic poets, because there is more grandeur and dignity in this latter form than in the other.  
As for examining whether tragedy is, or is not, now in full possession of its forms, judging it in itself or in relation to the stage, it is a question treated elsewhere.  
Thus, improvisational at its birth, tragedy, like comedy, the latter originating from dithyrambic poems, the former from phallic poems, which still have a legal existence in many cities, progressed little by little, by the development it received as much as it was in it.  
After undergoing many transformations, tragedy put an end to it, since it had assumed its natural form.  
Then came Aeschylus who, first, increased the number of actors from one to two, reduced the function of the chorus, and gave the leading role to spoken discourse. Sophocles instituted three actors and staging.  
As for the importance of tragedy, starting from light plots and pleasant language; given the satirical character of its origin, it took time to gain gravity, and its meter, from tetrameter, became iambic; for, originally, the tetrameter was used, since this poetic form is that of satire and more suitable for dance. Then, when spoken language came, nature itself found the meter that suited it; for the meter most apt for language is the iamb; and the proof is that, in conversation, we often come close to iambs, hexameters rarely and only when one leaves the tone of conversation.  
Then there is also talk of a quantity of episodes and other accessories intended to adorn each part. Thus, that is all we had to say about it, for it would certainly be a big deal to dwell on each detail in particular.

###tics00007###
CHAPTER V  
Definition of comedy; its first progress. - Comparison of tragedy and epic.

Definition of comedy; its first progress.  
Comedy, as we have already said, is an imitation of what is worse (than reality), and not in every kind of vice, but rather an imitation of what is ugly, of which a part is the ridiculous. Indeed, the ridiculous is caused by a fault and an ugliness not accompanied by suffering and not harmful: for example, one laughs immediately at the sight of an ugly and deformed face, without the one who bears it suffering from it.  
The transformations of tragedy, as well as their authors, have not remained unknown; but those of comedy are, because they were not paid attention to at the beginning. Indeed, it was only late that the archon regulated the chorus of comedians. It was formed (at first) at will.  
From the moment comedy took on certain forms, a small number of poets in this genre are cited.  
Who introduced masks, or prologues, or the plurality of actors, etc., is unknown.  
The composition of plots had as first authors Epicharmus and Phormis.  
Originally comedy came from Sicily. In Athens, it was Crates who, first, rejecting the iambic poem, began to compose subjects or plots on a general theme.

Comparison of tragedy and epic.  
Epic follows tragedy up to the meter (exclusively), as an imitation of serious people produced by speech; but it separates from it first in that it has a simple meter and that it is a narrative, then by the extent, for tragedy applies, as much as possible, to remain within a single solar revolution, or to exceed it only slightly, while epic is not limited by time, which makes a new difference. However, at the beginning, tragedies were made like epic poems.  
Of the parts that compose them, some are common to them, others are specific to tragedy. Thus, when one knows what makes a tragedy good or bad, one knows as much about epic poems; for the elements that epic involves exist in tragedy; but those that it contains are not all found in epic.

###tics00008###
CHAPTER VI  
Definition of tragedy. - Determination of the parts it is composed of. - Relative importance of these parts.

Definition of tragedy.  
We will speak later of the art of imitating in hexameters and of comedy, and we will now speak of tragedy by extracting from what precedes the definition of its essence.  
Tragedy is the imitation of a serious and complete action, having a certain extent, presented in language made pleasant and in such a way that each of the parts that compose it exists separately, developing with characters who act, and not by means of a narrative, and operating through pity and terror the purgation of passions of the same nature.  
By "language made pleasant" I mean that which combines rhythm, harmony, and song, and by the words "that each part exists separately" I mean that some of them are regulated only by means of meters, and others, in turn, by melody.  
But, as it is by acting that (tragic poets) produce imitation, it would necessarily result that the arrangement of the offered spectacle is the first part of tragedy; then comes the melody and, finally, the spoken language, for such are the elements that serve to produce imitation.  
By "spoken language" I mean the composition of meters, and by "melody" something that possesses in itself an evident value for everyone.  
Now, as imitation has for object an action and that an action has for authors people who act, who necessarily have such or such quality, in terms of moral character and thought (for this is what makes us say that actions have such or such character), it follows naturally that two causes determine actions, namely: moral character and thought; and it is according to these actions that everyone reaches the proposed goal, or does not reach it.  
Now the imitation of an action is a plot; I mean here by "plot" the composition of facts, and by "moral characters" (or manners) those that make us say that those who act have such or such quality; by "thought," everything that, in the words spoken, serves to make a demonstration or to express an opinion.

Determination of the parts it is composed of.  
It follows necessarily that every tragedy is composed of six parts that determine its character; these are: plot, manners, language, thought, scenic apparatus, and melody.  
Two of these parts concern the means one has to imitate; one, the manner in which one imitates; three, the objects of imitation; then that's all.  
A large number of them have used these forms; and, indeed, every (tragic poem) contains in itself in the same way a scenic apparatus, a moral character, a plot, a language, a song, and a thought.

Relative importance of these parts.  
The most important point is the constitution of the facts, for tragedy is an imitation not of men, but of actions, of life, of happiness and unhappiness; and indeed, happiness, unhappiness, resides in an action, and the end is an action, not a quality.  
It is in relation to manners that men have such or such duality, but it is in relation to actions that they are happy or unhappy. Thus it is not with the aim of imitating manners that (tragic poets) act, but they implicitly show the manners of their characters through actions; so that it is the facts and the plot that constitute the end of tragedy; now the end is the most important thing.  
I will say more: without action, there would be no tragedy, while, without manners, it could exist; and indeed, in most moderns, tragedies have no place for manners, and, absolutely speaking, many poets are in this case. Thus; among painters, this is what happens to Zeuxis compared to Polygnotus. Polygnotus is a good painter of manners, while Zeuxis's painting has no moral character.  
This is not all: if one delivered a series of moral tirades and well-crafted speeches or sentences, this would not be what we said earlier constitutes a tragic work; it would be done much better by composing a tragedy where these elements would be less abundant, but which would possess a plot and a constitution of facts.  
It is the same in the arts of drawing; for, if one displayed the richest colors haphazardly, one would not give as much pleasure as by tracing a determined figure with a pencil.  
Moreover, the parts of the plot most suitable for making tragedy captivate souls are the peripeties and recognitions.  
Another proof still is that those who approach dramatic composition can achieve great skill in terms of style and manners, before knowing how to constitute the facts. Moreover, this is what happened to almost all the first poets.  
Thus the principle, and as the soul of tragedy, is the plot. Manners come second; for imitation is the imitation of an action and, because of this action, the imitation of people who act.  
Then, in third place, thought, that is to say, the ability to say with propriety what is in the subject and what relates to it, a part which, in terms of eloquence, is the business of politics and rhetoric. Indeed, the characters that the ancients staged spoke a political language, and those of today speak an oratorical language.  
The moral character is what is likely to show the intention. That is why there is no moral character in those speeches where the party one adopts or rejects is not manifested, nor in those that contain absolutely nothing as a party adopted or rejected by the speaker. Thought is what serves to demonstrate that a thing exists or does not exist, or, generally, to state an affirmation.  
In fourth place comes diction: now I call "diction" as we said previously, the elocution obtained through denomination, which is of the same value, whether it is a question of versified words or prose speeches.  
In fifth place comes melody, the most important part from the point of view of the pleasure to be produced.  
As for the scenic apparatus, it is a part that certainly captivates souls, but it is independent of art and does not belong in any way to poetics; for tragedy exists independently of theatrical execution and actors, and what is essential for the making of the scenic apparatus is rather the art of the costumer than that of the poet.

###tics00009###
CHAPTER VII

On the extent of the action.  
All this once defined; we must now say what the constitution of the facts should be, since it is the first and most important part of tragedy.  
It is established by us that tragedy is the imitation of a perfect and entire action, having a certain extent. Now there exists such a thing that is entire, without having any extent.  
A perfect thing is one that has a beginning, a middle, and an end. The beginning is what does not necessarily come after something else, but is such that, after that, it is natural for something else to exist or occur; the end is that which, on the contrary, comes after something else by a natural, necessary, or ordinary succession, and is such that there is nothing after; the middle is that which comes after something else, when there is still something else after.  
Therefore, for the plots to be well constituted, they must neither begin with just any starting point, nor end just anywhere, but must use the aforementioned forms.  
Moreover, as beauty, whether it is a living being or any fact, is composed of certain elements, it is necessary not only that these elements be put in order, but also that they do not involve just any extent; for beauty supposes certain conditions of extent and order. Thus an animal would not be beautiful if it were very small, because the view is confused when it is exercised in an almost negligible time; nor if it were enormously large, because, in this case, the view cannot embrace the whole, and the perception of one and the whole escapes our view. This is what would happen, for example, in the presence of an animal of a size of ten thousand stades.  
Thus, just as for bodies and living beings, one must take into account the extent and make it easy to grasp, so for plots, one must take into account the length and make it easy to retain.
Regarding the delimitation of length, it is measured by the duration of performances, and it is a matter of judgment that is not within the realm of art; indeed, if one had to perform a hundred tragedies, they would be performed with a water clock, as was reportedly done in other times. Nature itself regulates this delimitation; and in truth, the longer a tragedy is, as long as it remains clear from start to finish, the more beautiful it is in its extent. Moreover, to give an absolute determination, I would say that if it is within an extent conforming to likelihood or necessity that the action continues and unfortunate events occur successively, then fortunate, or fortunate then unfortunate, there is a just delimitation of extent.

###tics00010###
CHAPTER VIII

On the unity of action. What makes a fable one is not, as some believe, that it relates to a single character, for a single person can experience an infinity of adventures, the whole of which, in some parts, would not constitute unity at all; likewise, the actions of a single person can be numerous without resulting in any unity of action. Thus, all the poets who composed the Heracleid, the Theseid, and other similar poems seem to have gone astray; for they believe that because Hercules, for example, is the sole hero, the fable must be one. Homer, among other traits that distinguish him from other poets, has this one: he understood this well, either through his knowledge of the art or through natural genius. In composing the Odyssey, he did not include in his poem all the events that happened to Ulysses, such as the wounds he received on Parnassus, or his feigned madness at the time of the army's gathering. Of these two facts, the accomplishment of one was neither a necessary nor even a probable consequence of the other; but he constituted the Odyssey with what we call "unity of action." He did the same for the Iliad. Therefore, just as in other imitative arts, the imitation of a single object is one, in the same way, the fable, since it is the imitation of an action, must be that of a single and entire action, and the parts of the facts must be constituted in such a way that the displacement of some part, or its suppression, entails a modification and a change in the whole; for what is added or subtracted without leaving a noticeable trace is not an integral part of this whole.

###tics00011###
CHAPTER IX Comparison of history and poetry. - On the historical element in drama. - Abuse of episodes in drama. On peripeteia, considered as a dramatic means.

Comparison of history and poetry. It is evident, from what has been said, that the poet's business is not to speak of what has happened, but of what could have happened and of possible things, according to likelihood or necessity. Indeed, the difference between the historian and the poet does not consist in one writing in verse and the other in prose. Even if Herodotus's work were written in verse, it would still be a history, regardless of the question of verse or prose. This difference consists in one speaking of what has happened, and the other of what could have happened. Thus, poetry is something more philosophical and more elevated than history; for poetry speaks more of generalities, and history of particular details. Generalities are the things that a character might say or do in a given condition, according to likelihood or necessity, and this is what poetry succeeds in by imposing proper names. The particular detail is, for example, what Alcibiades did or what was done to him. This has already been seen in comedy. After constituting a fable according to likelihoods, comic poets impose, in the same way, any names, but not in the way iambographers do, to compose on personal facts. For tragedy, poets take the names of characters who have existed. The reason is that what is possible is probable; now, what has not happened, we do not yet believe to be possible; but what has happened, it is evident that it is possible, for it would not have happened if it were impossible. Nevertheless, in some tragedies, there is one or two known names, and the others are fictitious; in some others, there is not a single known one, for example in Agathon's Flower; for, facts and names, everything is imaginary, which does not prevent this piece from being pleasing. Thus, one should not affect to stick entirely to traditional fables on which there are already tragedies. This affectation would be ridiculous, for known subjects are only known to a few and yet please everyone. It is evident from this that the poet must necessarily be a maker of fables rather than a maker of verses, especially since he is a poet by imitation: now he imitates actions; therefore, even when he happens to compose on facts that have happened, he will still be a poet, for nothing prevents some of the facts that have happened from being of such a nature that it would be likely that they happened or possible that they happen, and, under such conditions, the poet is indeed the creator of these facts. Among simple fables and actions, the worst are the episodic ones; now I mean by "episodic fable" one where the succession of episodes would conform neither to likelihood nor to necessity. Actions of this nature are conceived by bad poets due to their own taste, and by good ones, to condescend to that of the actors. Indeed, composing pieces intended for competitions, developing the subject beyond the possible extent, they are forced to break the continuity of the action. But as imitation, in tragedy, does not only concern a perfect action, but also facts that excite terror and pity, and since these feelings arise especially when facts happen against all expectation, and even better when they are brought about by one another, for, in this way, the surprise is more vivid than if they occur unexpectedly and by chance, given that, among fortuitous things, those seem the most surprising that appear produced as if by design (thus, for example, the statue of Mitys, in Argos, killed the one who had caused Mitys's death by falling on him while he was looking at it, for it seemed that this event was not a mere effect of chance), it necessarily follows that fables conceived in this spirit are the most beautiful.

###tics00012###
CHAPTER X On simple action and complex action. Among fables, some are simple and others complex; and indeed, the actions, of which fables are imitations, precisely have (one or the other of) these characteristics. Now I call "simple action" one that, in its single and continuous course, as defined, unfolds without peripeteia or recognition; and "complex action" one that unfolds with recognition or with peripeteia, or even with both. These effects must necessarily be drawn from the very constitution of the fable, so that they come to be produced as a likely or necessary consequence of previous events; for there is a great difference between a fact produced because of such another fact, and a fact produced after such another.

###tics00013###
CHAPTER XI Elements of complex action: peripeteia, recognition, pathetic event. Peripeteia is a change in the opposite direction in the facts that are accomplished, as we have said previously, and we will add here "according to likelihood or necessity." Thus, in Oedipus, a character comes with the thought of pleasing Oedipus and dispelling his perplexity regarding his mother; then, when he reveals to him who he is, produces the opposite effect. Similarly, in Lynceus, where a character is brought as destined to death, while Danaus arrives as about to kill him, and where it happens, as a result of accomplished events, that the latter dies and the other is saved. Recognition is, as its name indicates, the passage from the state of ignorance to knowledge, or to a feeling of friendship or hatred between characters designated to have happiness or unhappiness. The most beautiful recognition is when peripeteias occur simultaneously, which happens in Oedipus. There are still other kinds of recognitions. Thus, such a circumstance may arise, as mentioned, concerning inanimate objects or accidental facts; and there may be recognition according to whether such a character has or has not acted; but the one that mainly relates to the fable, or the one that mainly concerns the action, is the recognition we have spoken of. Indeed, it is this kind of recognition and peripeteia that will excite pity or terror, feelings inherent in the actions whose imitation constitutes tragedy. Moreover, the fact of being unhappy or happy will occur based on such data. Now, as recognition is that of certain characters, there is one where only one of the two is recognized, when the other knows who he is; other times, recognition is necessarily reciprocal. For example, Iphigenia is recognized by Orestes, as a result of the letter being sent; but for him to be recognized by Iphigenia, another recognition will have been necessary. There are, therefore, in this regard, two parts in the fable: peripeteia and recognition. A third part is the pathetic event. As for peripeteia and recognition, we have spoken about them. The pathetic event is a destructive or painful action; for example, deaths that occur manifestly, sufferings, wounds, and all other things of this kind...

###tics00014###
CHAPTER XII Divisions of tragedy. As for the quality of the forms that the parts of tragedy must employ, we have spoken about them previously. Now, concerning their quantity and their special divisions, the following are distinguished: the prologue, the episode, the denouement, the choral part, and, in this part, the entrance (???????) and the station. These elements are common to all (tragedies). The particular elements are those that depend on the scene and the lamentations (??????). The prologue is a complete part in itself of the tragedy, placed before the entrance of the chorus. The episode is a complete part in itself of the tragedy, placed between the complete songs of the chorus. The denouement is a complete part in itself after which there is no more chorus song. In the choral part, the entrance is what is first said by the entire chorus; and the station, the chorus song, performed without anapest and without trochee. The commos is a lamentation common to the chorus and the actors on stage. We have previously spoken about the parts of tragedy that must be employed, and we have just considered them in terms of their quantity and their divisions.

###tics00015###
CHAPTER XIII On the qualities of the fable in relation to persons. What should be the goal of those who constitute fables; what should their attention focus on; under what conditions does tragedy fulfill its function, this is what we have to say after the explanations given so far. As the composition of a tragedy, for it to be most beautiful, must not be simple, but complex and capable of imitating things that excite terror and pity (this is the characteristic of this kind of imitation), it is evident, first, that good people should not pass from happiness to misfortune (which excites neither pity nor fear, but horrifies us); nor should the wicked pass from misfortune to happiness, which is entirely removed from the tragic effect, for there is nothing there of what it requires: neither feelings of humanity nor motive for pity or terror. Nor should the very wicked man fall from happiness into misfortune, for such a situation would give rise to feelings of humanity, but not to pity or terror. Indeed, one arises in the presence of an unfortunate person who is unjustly so, the other, in the presence of an unfortunate person of a condition similar to ours. This case, therefore, has nothing that gives rise to pity or terror. The intermediate situation remains; it is that of a man who has nothing superior by his merit or his feelings of justice, and who does not owe his misfortune to his perversity and bad inclinations, but rather to a certain error he commits while in full glory and prosperity; such, for example, are Oedipus, Thyestes, and other famous characters, from families of the same rank. Therefore, the fable, to be well composed, must be simple and not double, as some claim; and it must pass not from misfortune to happiness, but, on the contrary, from happiness to misfortune; and this not because of perversity, but due to the grave error of a character as we have described, or of a better rather than a worse.

Here is a fact that proves it. Originally, poets told any fables; but today, the best tragedies revolve around subjects borrowed from the history of a small number of families, such as, for example, on Alcméon, Oedipus, Orestes, Meleager, Thyestes, Telephus, and all other characters who have done or experienced terrible things.

On the denouement. Such will be the mode of constitution of the best tragedy, according to the rules of art. Therefore, it is wrong to criticize Euripides for proceeding in this way in his tragedies and for many of them having an unhappy denouement. This, as has been said, is correct, and the best proof is that, in competitions and on stage, these kinds of pieces are found to be the most tragic when they are well conducted. Euripides, if, in other respects, the economy of his pieces leaves something to be desired, is at least the most tragic of poets. The second kind, put in the first rank by some, is the one that has a double constitution, like the Odyssey, and which presents an opposite end for both the good and the wicked. It seems to occupy the first rank, due to the weakness of the spectators' minds; for poets indulge, in their creations, in the taste and desire of their spectators. Besides, this is not the interest that one draws from tragedy; it is rather the one that belongs to comedy. There, indeed, characters given by the fable as the greatest enemies, such as Orestes and Aegisthus, come to be friends at the end of the piece, and no one gives or receives death.

###tics00016###
CHAPTER XIV On the pathetic event in the fable. The effects of terror and pity can be inherent in the stage play; but they can also originate from the very constitution of the facts, which is better and is the work of a stronger poet. Indeed, one must, without striking the eye, constitute the fable in such a way that, at the narration of the facts that are accomplished, the listener is seized with terror or pity as a result of the events; this is what one will experience when listening to the fable of Oedipus. Seeking this effect through sight is less artistic and will entail greater staging costs. As for producing not terrible effects through sight, but only prodigious effects, this has nothing in common with tragedy, for one should not seek, in tragedy, to provoke any interest, but the one that belongs to it. As the (tragic) poet must excite, through imitation, an interest drawn from pity or terror, it is evident that it is the facts he must employ. Let us see, then, what kind of events will excite terror or pity. Such actions will necessarily be accomplished either by characters who are friends with each other, or by enemies, or by indifferent ones. An enemy who kills his enemy, neither by his action itself nor on the verge of committing it, shows anything that excites pity, apart from the effect produced by the act itself. It is the same with characters indifferent to each other. But let the events happen between friendly people; let, for example, a brother give or be about to give death to his brother, a mother to her son, a son to his mother, or let them accomplish some similar action, that is what must be sought. It is not permissible to distort accepted fables; I mean, for example, Clytemnestra dying under Orestes's blows, Eriphyle under those of Alcmaeon.

Why most tragic subjects are provided by history. One must take the fable as it is found and make good use of tradition. Now, what we mean by "good use," we will say more clearly. It is possible that the action is accomplished in the conditions where the ancients represented it, by characters who know and recognize; thus Euripides represented Medea killing her children. It is also possible that the action takes place, but without its authors knowing that it is terrible, since, later, they recognize the existing friendship relationship, as in Sophocles's Oedipus. This happens sometimes outside the dramatic action, sometimes in the tragedy itself, as, for example, in Astydamas's Alcmaeon, or in Telegonus's Wound of Ulysses. There can be a third situation, which is when the one who is about to commit an irreparable action, out of ignorance, recognizes what it is before accomplishing it. After that, there is no more possible combination; for, necessarily, the action takes place or does not take place, and the character acts with or without knowledge. That a character aware of the situation is about to act and does not act is the worst, for this situation is horrible without being tragic, since it lacks pathos. Thus no one employs such a premise, except in a few cases. Such, for example, is Haemon wanting to kill Creon, in Antigone. Second comes the accomplishment of the act; but it is preferable that it be accomplished by a character not informed of the situation and who recognizes it after having done it; for the horrible is not added to it, and the recognition is likely to strike the spectator. The strongest is the last case, I mean the one, for example, where, in Cresphontes, Merope is about to kill her son and does not kill him, but recognizes him; where, in Iphigenia, the sister, about to strike her brother, recognizes him, and, in Belle, the son at the moment of delivering his mother. That is why tragedies, as has been said for a long time, take their subjects from a small number of families. Poets, seeking not in art, but in fortuitous events, have found in the fables this kind of subject to treat; they are therefore forced to address the families in which these events have occurred. We have sufficiently explained the constitution of the facts and the qualities that fables must have.

###tics00017###
CHAPTER XV On morals in tragedy. Regarding morals, there are four points to aim for; one, the first, is that they are good. The character will have morals if, as has been said, speech or action reveals a purpose; good morals if the revealed purpose is good.

On what is appropriate to put on stage. Each class of people has its kind of goodness; there is that of the woman, that of the slave, although the moral character of one may be less good, and that of the other absolutely bad. The second point is that (morals) are in relation to the character. Thus bravery is a trait of character, but it is not suitable for a woman's role to be brave or terrible. The third point is resemblance. For it is one thing to represent an honest character and (a character) in relation to the character, as has been said. The fourth is equality. And indeed, the character that presents an imitation and that supposes such a character, even if it were unequal, must be equally unequal. An example of unnecessary moral perversity is Menelaus in Orestes; of a character lacking decency and propriety, Ulysses's lamentation in Scylla, and Melanippe's speech; of an unequal role, Iphigenia at Aulis; for, in the scenes where she is suppliant, she resembles nothing of what she shows later. Now, one must, in morals as in the constitution of facts, always seek either necessity or likelihood, so that such a character speaks or acts according to necessity or likelihood, and that there is necessity or likelihood in the succession of events. It is therefore evident that the denouement of fables must occur through the means of the fable itself and not, as in Medea, by a machine and as, in the Iliad, concerning the re-embarkation. But one must use a machine for what is outside the drama, for everything that precedes it and that man cannot know, or for everything that must come afterward and that needs to be predicted and announced; for we attribute to the gods the ability to see all things and (think) that there is nothing inexplicable in the facts; otherwise, it will be outside of tragedy, as, for example, what happens in Sophocles's Oedipus.

On the art of embellishing characters. But, as tragedy is an imitation of things better (than nature), we must, we others, imitate good portraitists. They, while reproducing a particular form, while observing the resemblance to the original, embellish it through drawing. The poet, just as he represents angry or calm people and of such or such other character, must form a model either of honesty or of roughness, like the character of Achilles, in Agathon and in Homer. One must carefully observe these various points and, moreover, what addresses the senses in their necessary relations with poetry, for one can often make mistakes in this regard; but we have sufficiently explained this in the books previously published.

###tics00018###
CHAPTER XVI
Of the Four Forms of Recognition.

What recognition consists of has been said above. As for the forms of recognition, the first and least artistic, often used for lack of a better option, is recognition brought about by signs.

Among the signs, some are natural, like the spear carried (on the body) by men born of the earth, or the stars represented by Carcinus in Thyestes. Others are acquired, and among these, some are applied to the body, such as scars; others are distinct from the body, like necklaces, or, as in Tyro, a small boat.

These signs can be used more or less appropriately. Thus, Ulysses is recognized by his scar in one way by his nurse, and in another by the swineherds.

Indeed, recognitions obtained as proof and all those of this order are less artistic; but those that arise from a reversal, like the recognition that occurs in the bath scene, are preferable.

The second form includes recognitions invented by the poet; thus, they are not devoid of art. For example, Orestes, in Iphigenia in Tauris, recognizes his sister and is then recognized by her, as she recognizes him through the letter; but Orestes says what the poet makes him say, not the story. This is therefore a method almost as flawed as the one just mentioned, for Orestes could have carried some objects with him. Similarly, in Sophocles' Tereus, the language of the tapestry.

The third form is recognition by memory, when one realizes the situation upon seeing an object. Such is the one that occurs in the Cypriots, by Diceogenes. At the sight of the painting, the character bursts into tears. Such also is the one that occurs in the house of Alcinous according to words. (Ulysses) hears the bard; he remembers and weeps; hence, recognition.

The fourth is that which is drawn from reasoning, as in the Choephori. Someone resembling Electra has come; now, no one other than Orestes resembles her; therefore, it is he who has come. Such also is the one presented in Polyidus' Iphigenia, the sophist. It is natural for Orestes' reasoning to be that his sister was sacrificed and that the same fate awaits him. Similarly, in Theodectes' Tydeus, the character who comes as if to find his son is himself put to death.

Similarly, the recognition that occurs in the Phineidae; at the sight of the place (?), they drew the fatal conclusion that their destiny was to die there themselves, for it is precisely there that they had been exposed.

There is also a certain recognition brought about by a false reasoning of the spectators, as, for example, in Ulysses the False Messenger. The character says he will recognize the bow, which he had not seen; and the spectator, based on this forthcoming recognition, will have made a false reasoning.

The best mode of recognition is that which results from the facts themselves, because then the surprise has natural causes, as in Oedipus Rex, by Sophocles, and in Iphigenia in Tauris, where it is natural for her to want to send a letter. These kinds of recognition are the only ones that occur without the help of fictitious signs and necklaces; after those come those drawn from reasoning.
from the moment poets were granted the ability to lengthen (names) as much as they wanted, and who mocked them by quoting this verse:
and another:
It would be ridiculous to use this method indiscriminately, and moderation must be maintained in all parts; indeed, using metaphors, glosses, and other forms without observing propriety, or aiming to amuse, would lead to the same result.

To see to what extent propriety is observed, one must consider the question in the verses by fitting the names into a meter. For the gloss, for the metaphor, and for the other forms, by substituting the proper term, one could recognize that we speak the truth. Thus Euripides and Aeschylus, using the same iambic verse, one, by changing a single name and making a gloss instead of the proper term usually employed, gives his verses a beautiful appearance, while the other is quite simple; for Aeschylus, in his Philoctetes, wanting to say:
The ulcer that eats (??????) the flesh of my foot, to the verb (??????) substituted the word ???????? (feeds).

And again:
If one wanted to substitute the proper terms, one would say: or (instead of):
or this expression:
instead of this one:
Ariphrades, moreover, mocked tragic authors for using expressions that no one would include in conversation, such as ??????? ???, and not ???
??????? or the forms ?????, ??? ?? ???, ????????? ???? and not
???? ?????????, or other similar forms. As they do not fit into proper terms, they remove vulgarity from the style, and this is what Ariphrades did not see.

It is certainly not indifferent to make proper use of each of the aforementioned forms, double names, and foreign names or glosses: but the most important is to have a metaphorical language; for it is the only merit that cannot be borrowed from another and indicates a naturally well-endowed mind; since, placing a metaphor well, is considering the relations of resemblance.

Among names, those that are double are especially suitable for dithyrambs, foreign words for heroic poetry, and metaphors for iambs. In heroic poetry, all the means explained above are applicable. In iambs, as one seeks above all to imitate ordinary language, the most suitable names are those used in spoken discourse, that is, the proper term, the metaphor, and the ornament.




###tics00019###
CHAPTER XXIII

On epic composition.
That suffices on tragedy and action imitation. As for narrative poetry treated in hexameters, it is obviously necessary to constitute dramatic fables as in tragedy, and to make them revolve around a single, entire, and complete action, having a beginning, middle, and end, so that, like a unique and entire animal, it causes a pleasure that is its own. Compositions must not resemble histories, a genre in which one should not expose a single action, but a single chronological period (in which are recounted) all the events concerning one or several people, each of which individually has, according to the fortunes of fate, a relation with all the others.

Indeed, just as, in time, the naval battle of Salamis was fought, the Carthaginians' battle in Sicily took place, these two battles did not have the same purpose, similarly, in the succession of times, such an event takes place after such another without them having a common end.

This is what almost all poets do; also, as we have already said, Homer appears, in this respect, a divine, incomparable poet, not undertaking to put the entire war (of Troy) into poetry, although it had a beginning and an end; for it would have been too extensive and difficult to grasp as a whole, and, while giving it a moderate extent, he made it a war too laden with varied incidents. Instead, he detaches a part and resorts to several episodes, such as the catalog of ships and others, on which he spreads his poetry.

Others base their poem on a single hero, within the limits of a single era; but the single action that forms the basis is divided into many parts. Such are the poets who composed the Cypria and the Little Iliad. Thus the Iliad, the Odyssey, each serve as a text for one or two tragedies, the Cypria for a great number, the Little Iliad for eight, and even more: the Judgment of the Arms, Philoctetes, Neoptolemus, Eurypylus, the Beggar, the Lacedaemonians and the taking of Troy, the Departure of the Fleet, Sinon

and the Trojan Women.




###tics00020###
CHAPTER XXIV

Comparison of epic with tragedy.
There are necessarily as many kinds of epic as there are of tragedy; for it is necessarily simple, complex, moral, or pathetic. It has as many parts, apart from the melopoeia and the staging, for it requires peripeties, recognitions (of morals), and pathetic events; it also demands the beauty of thoughts and beautiful style. All these elements, Isomere used them for the first time, and in suitable conditions.

Indeed, each of these two poems constitutes, the Iliad a simple and pathetic work, the Odyssey a complex work - recognitions are found everywhere, - and moral. Moreover, by style and thought, he surpassed all poets.

What differentiates the epic (from tragedy) is the extent of the composition and the meter. The suitable limit of its extent, we have indicated: it must be possible to embrace the beginning and the end as a whole; and this could occur if the compositions were less considerable than the ancient ones and in relation to the number of tragedies given in a performance.

The epic has, to develop its extent, varied resources of its own, since, in tragedy, one cannot represent several actions at the same time, but only one part at a time is depicted on stage and by the actors; whereas in the epic, as it is a narrative, several events can be treated simultaneously at the moment they occur. When they are well within the subject, they add breadth to the poem; they thus contribute to giving it magnificence, transporting the listener from one place to another, and introducing variety into the episodes; for uniformity, which soon engenders disgust, causes tragedies to fall.

The heroic meter is the one whose suitability for the epic has been recognized by experience. If one composed a narrative poem in one or more meters other than that, one would see how it would be

out of place.
This is because the heroic is the most composed of meters and the one with the most breadth: it lends itself best to foreign names and metaphors, for narrative poetry is the richest of all. As for the iambic and the tetrameter, they have the property of agitating; one suits dance, the other dramatic action.

Something even more out of place would be to mix these meters, like Chérémon. Thus, no long-winded poem has ever been made in a meter other than the heroic. Besides, as we have said, nature itself teaches to discern what suits it.


Numerous merits of Homer.
Homer deserves praise for many other reasons, but especially because, alone among all poets, he does not ignore what the poet must do by himself. The poet must speak as little as possible in person; for, when he does, he is not an imitator.

Other poets stage themselves from one end of their work to the other; they imitate little and rarely; but he, after a short prelude, soon introduces a character, man or woman, or some other moral element, and never anyone without moral character, but always a character endowed with this character.

In tragedies, surprise must be produced, but in the epic, there can be, more than elsewhere, things that reason disapproves of (this is what contributes most to surprise), because the action does not take place before the eyes. Thus the details of Hector's pursuit would be ridiculous on stage, where one would see on one side the Greeks stopping short and ceasing to pursue him and on the other (Achilles) signaling them (to stop); but, in the epic, this effect is not noticeable, and the surprise causes pleasure; the proof is that in storytelling one always adds, since it is a means of pleasing.

Homer has also perfectly taught other poets to say, as needed, false things; now the means is paralogism. Men believe, given such a fact that exists, such another existing, or that has happened, such another happening, that if the subsequent fact exists, the prior fact exists or has happened too; now this is false. That is why, if the first fact is false, one necessarily adds something else that exists or has happened, this first fact existing; for, for this reason that it knows this other existing thing to be true, our soul makes this paralogism that the first exists too. The bath scene is an example.

One must adopt plausible impossibilities, rather than possible things that would be improbable, and not constitute

fables composed of parts that reason disapproves of, and in sum admit nothing unreasonable, or then, let it be outside the fabulous fabric. Thus Oedipus does not know how Laius perished; but the death of Laius is not included in the drama; thus, in Electra, those who recount the Pythian games or, in the Mysians, the mute character who comes from Tegea to Mysia.

Consequently, saying that the fable would be destroyed would be ridiculous; for one should not, in principle, constitute fables on such a basis; but, if established thus and it has a reasonable appearance, one can admit even the absurd, since the unreasonable passage of the Odyssey, relating to the exposure, would be obviously intolerable if a bad poem had treated it; but Homer has many other qualities to conceal, by softening, the absurdity of this situation.

One must work the style in inert parts, but not in those that stand out from the point of view of morals or thought; and on the contrary, a too brilliant style dims the effect of morals and thoughts.




###tics00021###
CHAPTER XXV

Objections made to poetic style.
On the question of objections and their solutions, the number and nature of their forms, it will be clearly seen what it is by the considerations that follow.

As the poet is an imitator, just as a painter or any other artist of this order would be, it necessarily follows that he imitates things in one of these three forms, either as they existed or exist, or as they are said or believed to be, or finally as they should be.

These things are stated through proper expression, or through glosses and metaphors. The (poetic) elocution is susceptible to many changes; for it is a faculty we grant to poets. Moreover, correction is not of the same nature for poetics and for politics, nor even for any other art and for poetics.

Poetics itself is subject to two kinds of faults; those that are its own, and others accidental. Indeed, if it aimed to imitate under impossible conditions, the fault would lie with itself, whereas, if the design were correct, but it represented a horse throwing forward its two right legs, or committed some fault against a particular art, for example, against medicine or any other art, the impossibilities it imagined would not be attributable to poetics itself.

Consequently, it is according to these observations that one must resolve (refute) the criticisms introduced in controversies.
(A) (146) There are first those that relate to the art itself. Imagined impossibilities are a fault; but it is correct if the goal of the art is achieved.

And indeed, it has been said that this goal (was achieved) if, in this way, the part in question or some other part was made more striking; example, Hector's pursuit.

If, however, the goal could be achieved more or less, and there was a

fault against the art in which the thing in question falls, it would not be good; for it is necessary, if possible, to commit absolutely no fault on any point.

Moreover, on which of the two points does the fault lie? on some detail inherent to the art, or on some other accidental fact? For it is less serious if the poet was unaware that the female deer has no horns than if he did not represent it according to the principles of imitation.

Besides, if one reproaches the lack of truth, one will answer that one wanted to render objects as they should be. Thus Sophocles said that he himself represented men as they should be, and Euripides as they are. That is how this criticism must be refuted.

If it is said that they are represented in neither of the two ways, it is thus (one will say) that common opinion sees them; for example, what is said about the gods. For it might not be better to speak in such a way, nor possible to tell the truth, but one speaks a little at random, as Xenophanes says.

It is not common opinion, and it might not be the best, but it is reality. Example, this verse about arms:
Indeed, it was the custom then, as the Illyrians still do today.

As for the question of whether a character's word or action is appropriate or not, it should not be examined by considering only this word or action taken in itself to see if it is good or bad, but also considering who is acting or speaking, whom they are dealing with, at what moment, in favor of whom, for what purpose, as, for example, in view of a greater good, so that it occurs, or because of a greater evil, to avoid it.

Criticisms relating to style must be destroyed, for example by alleging the use of a gloss or foreign name:
for perhaps he does not mean mules here, but guards. And regarding Dolon:
This does not mean deformed body, but ugly face, for among the Cretans, "of beautiful form" is said to express facial beauty. And in this verse:
????????? (154)" does not mean "wine unmixed with water" as for drunkards, but "more promptly".

Such a term has been used metaphorically, as in these verses: Then he said at the same time:

The word ?????? has been taken metaphorically, instead of ?????? (many); for the word all, here, means in large numbers.
This too:
But she who is the only one deprived...
is said metaphorically; for, what is most known is what is alone.
###tics00022###
I. (One can also refute the criticism by alleging) accentuation, as Hippias of Thasos refuted it regarding the expression:
??????? ?? ??... we give him and this other:
what on one hand is not rotten by the rain.
###tics00023###
K. Other times one will allege punctuation, as in this verse by Empedocles:
And from then on mortal beings were born who, before, had learned to be immortal; and pure, before, they had been mixed.
###tics00024###
L. Or ambiguity:
The greatest half of the night is past... for ????? is ambiguous.
###tics00025###
M. Or again expressions consecrated by usage. Thus of any mixed drink one says "wine", and one will write:
a newly wrought tin greave, or one will call
??????? (bronze workers) those who work iron. Thus it has been said of Ganymede: ????????? (he pours wine) to Jupiter, although (the gods do not drink wine. All these expressions fall into metaphor.
XIX-XX. One must also, when a name seems to indicate some contradiction, observe in how many ways it can be understood in the passage in question; for example, in this one: The bronze spear attached itself (to this one). In how many ways was the spear stopped by this one? Is it in this way that it should best be understood, namely: "against this blade" (without penetrating it)? There is also the case examined by Glaucon: some have an unfounded prejudice: reasoning and deciding based on this and after speaking according to their personal opinion, they criticize the thing that contradicts their thought.
This is what happened regarding Icarus. It is thought that he was Lacedaemonian. It is therefore strange, consequently, that Telemachus, arriving in Lacedaemon, did not meet him; yet the thing perhaps happened as the Cephallenians recount. They

claim that Ulysses married a woman from their land and that it concerns Icade, and not Icarus. It is therefore likely that this controversy is caused by an error.


Solutions.
In sum, one must bring the impossible back to poetic conception, or to the best, or to opinion; for, for poetry, the probable impossible must be preferred to the improbable, even possible. For the best, characters must be represented not only as they are, as in the paintings of Zeuxis, but also as best as possible, for the work must surpass the model. (For opinion), if it concerns unreasonable things, the composition can have this character and, in some way, not be unreasonable; for it is plausible that certain things happen contrary to plausibility.
For things contradictory to what has been said, one must examine, as when it comes to rhetorical refutations, if the same thing has been related to the same thing and in the same way, if the poet has spoken himself, and see in what intention he expressed himself thus and what idea a sensible man would make of his language.
Regarding an inconsistency or wickedness, the criticism will be founded if it is without any necessity that one employs either inconsistency, like Euripides in Aegeus, or wickedness, like that of Menelaus in Orestes.
Thus criticisms are drawn from five spaces (of ideas), presented either as impossible, as inconsistent, as harmful, as contradictory, or finally as contrary to the rules of art. As for solutions (or answers), they must be examined according to the explanations that precede; they are twelve in number.




###tics00026###
CHAPTER XXVI

Is epic composition superior to tragic composition?
Is epic imitation superior to tragic imitation? One might ask.
Indeed, if it is the least vulgar that has the advantage, and that is always the case for the one that addresses spectators of superior value, it is quite evident that the one that exercises on all things indifferently is a vulgar imitation; for the actor, seeing that the spectators remain unmoved if he himself does not outdo himself, gives himself a lot of movement. Thus bad aulists (flute players) spin around when it comes to imitating a disc, and they lead the coryphaeus when they perform, to the sound of the flute, the scene of Scylla.
Tragedy is thus in the conditions where the ancients (actors) said those who followed them were. Thus Mynniscus, seeing Callipides play with exaggeration, called him a monkey, and such was also the reputation of Pindarus. Now, what these actors were in the eyes of their critics, the whole art (of tragedy) is for the epic.
It is claimed that the latter addresses sensible people, because they do not need to see gestures, while tragedy addresses spectators of inferior taste. Consequently, if it is vulgar, it is evident that it could well be inferior.
First, the accusation does not reach poetics, but rather hypocritics, since it is in gestures that one can exaggerate while declaiming, as Sosistratus did, and while singing, which characterized the singing of Mnasitheus of Opus.
Then, not all kinds of movement should be disapproved of, since it is not the dance, but the poorly executed dance (that lends itself to criticism), like the one reproached to Callipides, and reproached today to others for imitating low-class women.
Moreover, tragedy, even without movement, fulfills its

proper function just like the epic; for, just by reading, one can well see its quality. Consequently, if it excels in other respects, it is certainly not necessary for it to possess this accessory.
Let us add that it has all the resources that belong to the epic (since it has the meter), and in addition, which is not of minor importance, music and spectacle, through which the pleasures are as vivid as possible. It also finds a powerful resource in recognition and in the actions (it unfolds).
(It is superior) also in that the goal of imitation is achieved in a less considerable extent (than for the epic); for what is more concise gives more pleasure than what is spread over a long period of time. I mean by that if, for example, one composed Sophocles' Oedipus in as many verses as there are in the Iliad.
Moreover, the imitation of epic poets is less one, and the proof is that from any epic imitation several tragedies are drawn; it is to the point that, if only one fable is treated (in the epic), either it is exposed briefly, and then the work seems shortened, or one accommodates to the length that this meter entails, and it seems diluted. I will cite as an example... Now, if (the epic) is composed of several fables, like the Iliad, it contains a large number of parts, as well as the Odyssey, which each have their own extent; and yet the constitution of these poems is as perfect as possible, and they are the imitation of a single action.


Conclusion in the sense of the negative
If, therefore (tragedy) excels by all these advantages and, moreover, by the proper function of this art (for tragedies do not provide just any pleasure, but the one we have mentioned), it is evident that it could well, achieving its goal better, be superior to the epic.
That is all we have to say about tragedy and epic, about their varieties and parts, about the number and nature of their differences, about what makes them good or bad, about the criticisms they lend themselves to and the responses that can be made to them.




###tics00027###
END
