Yves Lavandier

CONSTRUCTING A STORY

TABLE OF CONTENTS

PREFACE
1. THE BASIC MOTIF
2. THE MEANING
A. The first point of the line
B. The importance of determining the meaning
C. Finding your general intention
D. Be aware of potential pitfalls
E. Beyond the general intention
3. MAJOR CHOICES
4. THE DRAMATIC PITCH
A. Protagonist-objective-obstacles
B. The logline
C. Designing your dramatic pitch
D. Pitch and first act
E. Plot-driven and character-driven stories
F. Continuously test your pitch
5. THE INTERNAL TRAJECTORY
A. Three emotional questions
B. Beware of dogmas
C. Four essential elements
D. Creating the internal trajectory
6. THE FOUNDATIONS
A. The title
B. Characterization of the protagonist
C. The inciting incident
D. The general objective
E. The stakes
F. Characters other than the protagonist
G. Motivations, sub-objectives, and means
H. The first act-second act transition
I. Arena
J. The obstacles
K. The climax
L. The dramatic response
M. The third act
N. Major dramatic ironies
O. Major diffuse dramatic ironies
P. The major dramatic knots
Q. Comedy
R. Trajectory elements
S. Three examples of foundations
T. A step to mature

7. CHARACTERIZATION
8. SCENE-BY-SCENE
A. Milestones and sequences
B. Three examples of milestones
C. From milestones to scene-by-scene
D. Three excerpts from scene-by-scene
9. THE TREATMENT
A. Local foundations
B. Avoid deus ex machina and conveniences
C. Three excerpts from treatment
10. DIALOGUE CONTINUITY
A. Dialogue
B. Exposition
C. General suggestions
D. Excerpt from dialogue continuity
11. SPECIFIC WRITINGS
A. Adapting literary works
B. Children's stories
C. Short stories
D. Documentaries
E. Series (TV, comics, web)
12. FUNDAMENTAL REQUIREMENTS
A. Make choices
B. Be clear
C. Be fierce with your protagonist
D. Be ruthless with yourself
E. Be simple and exploit
F. Engage the audience
G. Be detached
H. Understand all your characters
I. Dramatize
J. Show, don't tell
K. Use the most powerful languages
L. Create connection
M. Be plausible
N. Be specific
O. Resolve your story
P. Have fun and... entertain us
Q. Cherish comedy
R. Be patient and tenacious
S. Have it read
T. Let it rest
13. HAVE IT READ
14. SCALES CONCLUSION
GLOSSARY
INDEX OF WORKS INDEX OF PEOPLE BIBLIOGRAPHY

PREFACE
"Art is not pure expression, it is elaborated expression."
(Jean-François Zygel [97]')
"It is not the outpourings of the unconscious but rather the mastery of unconscious tendencies, the submission of the creative faculty to strong aesthetic discipline that alone allows works of art."
(Bruno Bettelheim [08])
Channeling the gushes of blood
Red Smith [74], an American sports journalist, once famously said: "Writing is easy, you just sit down at your typewriter and open a vein." The phrase is charming but incomplete. It's not enough to open a vein; you also have to channel the flow. Many artists have expressed this idea of mastering the flow in their own way. For Jorge Luis Borges, art was a mix of fire and algebra. Billy Wilder [93] said that a writer shouldn't just have hundreds of ideas; he should also be their accountant. Hitchcock [41] told Truffaut "that a mass of ideas, however good, is not enough to make a successful film. They must be carefully presented with a constant awareness of the overall configuration." In other words, your left hemisphere must continually sort and organize the outpourings of your right hemisphere.
Interest in coherence?
You might wonder if it's really necessary to put order into your gushes of blood. It's true that an artist creates with both their skills and their clumsiness. Flaws and mistakes are also part of the work. It's even said that if Ingres' famous Grande Odalisque didn't have three extra vertebrae, the painting wouldn't be a masterpiece. In the same spirit, it seems some artists add "false notes" to their works or remove one or two pieces of the puzzle to make it "artistic"! All this seems exaggerated and especially inauthentic to me.

1. The numbers in brackets [ ] refer to the bibliography at the end of the volume.

Moreover, the idea that genius—if one has it—will necessarily shine through, no matter what, is a cliché. In 1896, regarding a selection of the many scores sent to him, Johannes Brahms [12] noted: "Some convey real inspiration but lack structure. Others have structure, but they lack inspiration. As I've already said, no composition can be lasting if it isn't made of both inspiration and serious craftsmanship."
I believe that, in all arts, talent and genius need a lot of work and a minimum of rigor. Not rigidity, rigor. Hence the importance of knowing your intention (see chapter 2) and respecting a few rules.
Vade retro
The taboo word: "rules." To avoid offending artists allergic to rules, some use another term: guides, principles, etc. It's as effective as calling a cleaning lady a surface technician. I assert that dramaturgy is governed by rules, whether in life or fiction, and there's no reason to despair about it, quite the contrary. Rules are our friends. They help us convey our thoughts to others. I elaborate on these ideas in the introduction to La dramaturgie [51].
Note that the word "rules" refers to two different notions, logically linked. First, they are the constants whose omnipresence is observed in the repertoire. These fundamental rules then become writing guides. For example, if by observing great works, I see they contain conflict and understand its validity, when I become an author, I set myself the rule of including conflict in what I write.
Abracadabra
I began to take an interest in the rules of storytelling in 1980, as an apprentice filmmaker, not as a theorist. In the West, the first screenplay treatise is none other than Aristotle's Poetics [02]. After him, Horace, Nicolas Boileau, Denis Diderot, William Archer, Lajos Egri, Edward Mabley, and many others enriched the reflection over the centuries. And then suddenly, in 1979, for reasons that escape me, the reflection considerably narrowed with the publication of a book that quickly became very influential in the United States: Screenplay [28] by Syd Field. Suddenly, to write a screenplay, one had to fit into a definitive formula, otherwise, you were done for. In the decades that followed, many Anglo-Saxon theorists elaborated on the model proposed by Syd Field and each arrived at a complicated and rigid structural theory. Miraculously, the great masterpieces of cinema (preferably American) conform exactly to the model. Neither the viewer nor the screenwriter that I am ever found themselves in it.
When I see a clever diagram with arrows, ups and downs, and the "proof" by example that goes with it, I can't help but think of two images. First, the stepsisters of Cinderella, in the Grimm brothers' tale (Cinderella), who mutilate their feet to fit into the golden slipper. Initially, the prince is fooled but when he sees the blood, he repudiates the impostors. I feel that some story theorists are like Cinderella's stepsisters: they want at all costs for their foot (inadequate model) to fit the golden slipper (the entirety of great stories). In my opinion, they get big blisters but they still manage to damage the works and deceive many authors (see pages 104-105).
Partly, moreover, for the following reason. It's the second image that comes to mind, that of an illusionist performing a sleight of hand. Like all magicians, he needs smoke and mirrors, he needs a clever and complicated formula to convince. Because humans tend to find sophisticated models more intelligent and therefore more credible than simple models (see Alex Bavelas' experiment described in Evaluating a Screenplay [50]). I must admit that compared to some paradigms, my conception of the three acts is banal to tears (see pages 176-177). It is not impressive. But—and this is where I'm getting at—know that my goal in this book is not to impress you, it is to be in agreement with the facts—those that are said to be stubborn—and to help you write. In short, to find the right map for the territory. I'm not saying I achieve it 100% but, in any case, it's my only motivation. It's also an author's motivation. Over the years, I've sought the theory and method that seemed to me the most logical, the most faithful to reality, and the most practical for writing myself.
Now, if rigid and sophisticated models help you write, by all means, don't hesitate. We count on you to tell us beautiful stories. Because, in the end, that's all that matters.

Be autonomous
In life, whatever the field and whatever the rules, there are three possible attitudes towards them: submission, rebellion, or autonomy. Like La dramaturgie [51], this book is full of rules. They weren't decreed by Hollywood. For the most part, they are linked to the life of living organisms and have existed since the dawn of time. I invite you to follow them, or not, being neither in submission nor rebellion, but in autonomy.
The method proposed in this book logically follows from the storytelling rules detailed in La dramaturgie. Constructing a Story is to guides what La dramaturgie is to constants. It is therefore not a summary of La dramaturgie. It is the development of the former chapters 16, 17, and 22 of its predecessor. It aims to be concrete and methodological. Moreover, I have strived not to repeat myself and never to cite the same examples (or not in the same way). That's why I will regularly refer to the theory present in La dramaturgie.
My ambition is to help you organize the outpourings of your right hemisphere and to allow authors who want to tell a story to convey their thoughts and universe while captivating the receiver of their art. The method also stems from my personal experience. My suggestions are worth what they're worth but at least I'm the first to apply them. All the recommendations that nourish this book have proven themselves in the workshops I've led. I readily admit they don't suit everyone. But they work with some authors. So each one must find what can help them.
The "four-quarters" rule
If a book invites its reader to mix, in equal weight, eggs, flour, sugar, and butter and put it all in an oven at 180°, for 45 minutes, there's a good chance everyone will get a delicious pound cake. Not because the rule's statement is simple but because it is easy to apply. The rules that appear in this book may sometimes seem just as simple. You must keep in mind that they are much more difficult to implement. It's not writing that's difficult, it's writing well. It's not understanding the rules that requires talent, it's their application. Understanding is one thing, learning is another. The application of the rules requires not only talent but also a lot of time and practice. As we know, success is 5% inspiration and 95% perspiration. That's the limit of this book: it's not enough to have read and understood it to immediately become a good dramatic author or a good script doctor (see Evaluating a Screenplay [50]). It would be too easy.
Terminological questions
Behind the words "pitch," "sequence," or "exposition," each theorist offers their definitions and they don't always match. If you're writing a personal project, I invite you to focus on the concepts defined in this book rather than the words that designate them. But if you're doing commissioned work and your interlocutor uses a given vocabulary, ask for clarifications. What does he mean by "sequence" or "treatment"? What does he want to see in it? How many pages? A glossary at the end of the volume will help you recall all the notions covered in the book.
Hats off to the screenwriters!
In March 2015, I created a web series titled Hats off to the screenwriters! It is in English, subtitled in French, and available on YouTube. Each episode is between three and six minutes long and illustrates a remarkable storytelling element. It is therefore a visual complement to this book and La dramaturgie [51]. It is also and above all a tribute to all the great storytellers, to those artists who invent stories, characters, fictional universes, structures, and... meaning.
Yves Lavandier (May 2019)

1. THE BASIC MOTIF

"I will do everything to discover the author of this murder."

"You will learn nothing from me."

(Oedipus, Oedipus Rex)

(Tiresias, Oedipus Rex)

I am often asked what a story is (in the sense of a narrative). More precisely, what a good story is. My definition is simple; it encompasses all good stories, whether it's The Cherry Orchard or Terminator. A good story is a difficult human action. N.B. The word "human" is to be taken in the broad sense, in the anthropomorphic sense. One can tell stories of animals, puppets, machines, corks, as long as they make one think of humans. The four words matter in my definition: "action," "human," "difficult," but also "a." If you tell a difficult human action, there's a good chance you'll end up with a narrative. However, this definition does not reveal the basic motif of every story. A good story is a difficult human action, agreed, but what tool allows for producing a difficult human action? Before getting into the concrete methodology, it seems necessary to answer this important question and provide some insights into the basic motif of the narrative.
Objective versus obstacles
To uncover the basic motif of every story, one can either start from the definition of the word "drama" or focus on the basic element of dramaturgy: conflict. In both cases, the result is the same.
"Drama" means "action" in Greek. At the source of every action undertaken by a living organism, there is an impulse, a desire, an objective, conscious or unconscious. This objective can be, at choice, easy to achieve or difficult to achieve. In fiction, an objective easy to achieve interests no one and tells almost nothing. The objective must therefore be difficult to achieve. The only way to confer this status is to oppose it to various and diverse forces that can be called "obstacles."

If we now start from conflict, and more particularly dynamic conflict, we understand that it is created by the opposition between an objective and an obstacle. I assert that every action of a living organism can be reduced to an objective, conscious or unconscious, versus one or more obstacles.
Conflict and obstacle
Even though they are linked, conflict and obstacle are two distinct notions that should not be confused. Everyone sees what a conflict is, but it doesn't seem easy to define. Dictionaries merely explain that conflict results from opposition. We know what creates conflict, but we still don't know exactly what it is. I propose the following definition: conflict is a difficult circumstance of life, always associated with a feeling of frustration and often with a feeling of anxiety. Does this mean there are difficult life circumstances without frustration or anxiety? Yes. When a difficult situation is met by an individual with humor or as a means to grow and gain experience, then it is not experienced as a source of problems. It is rare for a human being to react with such detachment or serenity in the face of a challenge, but it happens. In all other cases, the difficulty turns into conflict and generates unpleasant feelings.
The obstacle, on the other hand, is an element that opposes a movement, therefore an action, a desire, a want, an objective (conscious or unconscious). This opposing element can be an object, an animal, a person, a natural element, another objective, a quality, a flaw, an emotion, etc. But it is clear that a precise objective is needed to confer the status of an obstacle on an element. A force 5 wind is an obstacle for someone who wants to play outdoor ping-pong, but the same force 5 wind is not at all an obstacle for an experienced windsurfer. Similarly, a wall can be, depending on the circumstances, an obstacle, a help, or neither. A ticket inspector, acting exactly the same way, will be an obstacle for someone who cheats, not for someone who pays for their transport.
Imagine now that you are playing outdoor ping-pong. Suddenly, the wind picks up and starts blowing at twenty knots. Don't you feel frustration? Imagine you are on a train without a ticket and you see an inspector approaching. Don't you feel a twinge of anxiety? And when the inspector issues you a fine, don't you feel frustration? If you answer no to these three questions, it's because the wind and the inspector are not obstacles for you, and therefore they don't cause you conflict.
A scene from White Heat presents a conflict that turns out to serve as an obstacle to action. In prison, Cody (James Cagney) is informed that his escape is organized for that very evening. It's his local objective. A few minutes later, he learns that his beloved mother has died. He experiences an intense static conflict. Mad with grief, he starts breaking everything, hits several guards, and ends up in solitary confinement for an indefinite time, an obstacle that ruins his escape plan.
Fundamental mechanisms as a consequence
Objective-obstacles logically imply character, characterization, conflict, protagonist, stakes, arena, three-act structure, inciting incident, climax, crescendo, dramatic question, suspense, unity, and preparation. Quite a list!
Character because an objective doesn't float in the ether; it necessarily has an owner.
Characterization because the character has characteristics, a life routine, needs, specificities.
Conflict because, as we've just seen, the objective-obstacles opposition generates conflict.
Protagonist because the character who experiences the most conflict is the one whose story is told. We call them the "protagonist."
Stakes because the protagonist didn't set this objective without reason. They have motivations and something to lose or gain in the operation.
Arena because often, either the protagonist comes from a meaningful setting or universe, or their objective leads them into a meaningful setting or universe.
Three-act structure because as soon as a character adopts an objective, they create three logical phases: before the objective, during the objective, and after the objective. I call these phases "launch-action-fallout."
Inciting incident because an objective doesn't come out of nowhere. An event is needed to provoke it.
Climax because an objective is not eternal. There comes a moment when either the protagonist achieves their objective or abandons it. This moment that concludes the second act is called the "climax" in English. In French, we could say the "great resolution scene."
Crescendo because in fiction, it is logical and effective for the strongest obstacles to be placed at the end.

Dramatic question because the protagonist and the viewer wonder if the protagonist will achieve their objective.
Suspense because if the obstacles are well-balanced, neither too weak nor too strong, the dramatic response is uncertain. The viewer is torn between hope and fear.
Unity because a given objective generates one and only one action.
Preparation because as soon as a character declares their objective, they make a double announcement, linked both to the character's characteristics and their objective. Everything that follows must depend on this gigantic preparation.
All these fundamental notions logically stem from the objective-obstacles pair. The only important mechanism in dramaturgy not induced by this basic motif is dramatic irony. Dramatic irony, which we will return to, is closely linked to the mode of perception of all fiction.
Unconscious objectives
I distinguish two types of unconscious objectives. The first type is reflexive. It is often an instinctive protection objective. When, inadvertently, you put your hand on hot metal, you immediately, without thinking, have the objective of preserving your hand. When an explosion sounds, you don't take two minutes to analyze the situation and declare an objective; you immediately duck and run for cover. When a nuisance invades the life of a misanthropic adventurer, he seeks peace without necessarily being aware of his objective. This is what Martin (Yves Montand) does in Le Sauvage. When you experience professional, sexual, and emotional misery, like Clara (Emmanuelle Devos) in Sur mes lèvres, you try to get out of it without necessarily articulating it clearly. This first type of unconscious objective falls into the category of dramatic objectives. We will return to this with the notions of sub-objectives and motivations (pages 162-165).
The second type of unconscious objective is a transformation objective. I call it the "trajectory objective" as it corresponds to the psychological trajectory of one of the characters. It is always a declination of a universal objective, common to all living organisms: to grow, to gain resilience, sometimes humanity. For humans, this can mean: being less venal, shedding omnipotence, mourning, becoming more generous, gaining lucidity, freeing oneself from inner demons, countering the barbarity of our cells, etc.
You will notice that the first objective is a reaction to external obstacles or internal-origin obstacles and is concrete. While the second is closely linked to an internal obstacle. We will see in chapters 4 and 5 that this distinction is important and will discuss the trajectory objective in detail in chapter 5.

Life is Aristotelian

In the documentary "A Childhood Under Occupation," a witness of the time, Roger Emmenecker, recounts that his father was a teacher in Alsace during World War II and that Roger was a student in his class. His father was also part of the resistance and used the school's radio to listen to the BBC. One day, after secretly listening to Radio London, the father forgot to reset the dial to an authorized frequency. When a German inspector turned on the radio the next day, the whole class heard English voices. A moment of hesitation. Roger's father then turned to his son, slapped him, and accused him of playing with the radio. Roger understood the maneuver, confirmed he was the culprit, and his father was not troubled.

Everything is in this true story. An internal obstacle, conflict, suspense, dramatic irony, a piece of activity, and a resourceful protagonist. And above all, yet another confirmation that dramaturgy is not only in theater or cinema, but also in life. All living organisms, plants, animals, or humans, are programmed to propagate the species. This is one of the great unconscious goals of life. As soon as a living organism undertakes something (consciously or unconsciously) and the result is uncertain, there is dramaturgy.

- Will the superorganism pass natural selection? Suspense...
- Will the seed carried by the wind germinate and give birth to a plant? Suspense...
- Will the baby turtle just hatched at the top of the beach reach the sea safely? Suspense...
- Will my childbirth go well? Suspense...
- Will I win my trial? Suspense...
- Will I manage to learn piano or blacksmithing? Suspense...
- Will I get a salary raise? Suspense...
- Will I manage to write a beautiful story? Suspense...

In humans, the principle also works on an unconscious level.
- Will I finally understand that I have trouble - check the box - letting go, admitting my mistakes, getting to work, settling down, accepting imperfection, accepting death, respecting others, respecting my body, being authentic, etc.? Suspense...
- Will I grow, transform for the better or, on the contrary, let the barbarity within me express and/or develop? Suspense...

The principle also works when we identify with a human being, real or fictional, or when we consider that the actions of some reflect on us.
- Will my child pass their exam? Suspense...
- Will my favorite candidate be elected? Suspense...
- Will the team I support win the World Cup? Suspense...
- Will my compatriot taken hostage on the other side of the planet be released? Suspense...
- Will French cinema and audiovisual finally understand the importance of the script (in the sense of narrative) and put screenwriters (in the sense of storytellers) at the center of the process? Mega suspense...

If the narrative were a plant...
... it would be a Romanesco broccoli. Indeed, this objective-obstacle principle is the basic form of a fractal structure. In other words, the narrative is the combination, at different scales, of thousands of objective-obstacle pairs.

But, you may wonder, if every narrative can be reduced to such a simple pattern, how is it that in the end, narratives are so different from one another? There are six major reasons for this.

1. First, a narrative can be composed of major objectives of different natures: dramatic, trajectory, ironic. A single general dramatic objective is advised, but there can be several trajectory and/or ironic objectives that overlay the dramatic objective.

2. Then, there is an infinite number of possible combinations available to authors. An infinite number of possible protagonists, characterizations, arenas, triggering incidents, obstacles, and climaxes. However, even if dramatic objectives can be diverse and varied, it cannot be said that there is an infinite number of motivations and objectives.

In life as in fiction, the same forces always move living organisms.
Imagine that on the scale of the entire work, you settle on a protagonist, a triggering incident, a general objective, obstacles, all very specific. From this seemingly unique set, you can still write thirty-six different narratives. This brings us to the four other factors of differentiation.

3. As mentioned earlier, the basic pattern is found at different scales: the entire work but also the series, the episode, the act (dramatic or logistical), the sequence, the scene, sometimes even a line of dialogue. The entire first act of "Les Compères," for example, has a different protagonist from the general protagonist. It is Christine (Anny Duperey) whose objective is to find her runaway son. Once she has passed her objective to Pignon (Pierre Richard) and Lucas (Gérard Depardieu), we enter the second act. The climax of "Ben-Hur" is the famous chariot race. It is a sequence (that is, a set of scenes) that lasts 25 minutes and contains three acts and a climax. The second act of this sequence begins when the chariots set off. The climax of the climax of "Ben-Hur" is the moment when Ben-Hur (Charlton Heston) and Messala (Stephen Boyd) are at the head of the race and finalize their confrontation by intensifying it. The third act of the climax includes the crowning of the winner and the death of the loser.

4. The thousands of basic patterns combined to obtain a narrative do not always concern the general protagonist of the work. In one of the scenes of "North by Northwest," a secondary character, Leonard (Martin Landau), tries to convince his boss (James Mason) that the woman his boss loves has betrayed them. The general protagonist of the film (Cary Grant) witnesses the scene as a hidden observer but is not the local protagonist.

5. One can play with the basic structure. Some elements can be hidden, revealed later, only part of the side stories shown, add one or more subplots, create surprises or mystery, place elements out of order. And also choose to develop the trajectory objective more than the dramatic objective. When I say that a narrative is a fractal mix, it is not a regular mix where each mini-narrative appears in order and in full. A narrative is an arbitrary and partial fractal mix. In the short film "Omnibus," for example, the protagonist's life routine - usually part of the first act - is found in the second act. It is used as an argument by the protagonist (Daniel Rialet). "Once Upon a Time in the West" is a beautiful example of an arbitrary and partial fractal mix. The triggering incident is the massacre of the McBain family by Frank (Henry Fonda), an immoral gang leader working for a corrupt industrialist named Morton (Gabriele Ferzetti). This triggering incident affects two important characters: Jill (Claudia Cardinale), McBain's wife, who arrives from New Orleans after the massacre, and Cheyenne (Jason Robards) whom Frank frames for his heinous crimes. Jill initially aims to return from where she came, but when she understands what her husband wanted to do - build a station at a strategic location for the railroad under construction - she decides to stay and counter Frank and Morton. As for Cheyenne, he has two objectives: not to pay for Frank's crimes and to take revenge. He also has a secondary objective to help Jill. A fourth important character in the film has the same secondary objective as Cheyenne. It is Harmonica (Charles Bronson). His main objective is to take revenge on Frank. In Harmonica's story, the triggering incident dates back many years when Frank killed Harmonica's brother in a sadistic way. This triggering incident is the subject of a famous flashback at the end of the film. In short, take the five main characters of "Once Upon a Time in the West," each with their triggering incident, their main and secondary objectives, make them cross and recross, and you get the cocktail we know. It is a fractal structure that respects two fundamental mechanisms: conflict and unity. Unity is embodied by Frank. Because the objectives of the other characters are all related to him.

6. Finally, the last criterion and not the least, this fractal combination that is the narrative is never as perfectly constructed as a Romanesco broccoli. One must account for failures, approximations, exceptions, rebellions (conscious or not), in short, what some call "poetic licenses."

History and narrative

The preceding points, particularly the fifth, lead me to discuss the difference between history and narrative. History is the chronological sequence of events relating to a given subject. In life, events are in order. Moreover, we give the important events of human life the name of History. And in history class, more or less, teachers recount events in chronological order. The remarkable documentary titled "Apocalypse: The Second World War" recounts all the events that constituted this war and does so in order. One can perfectly tell a fiction by respecting the chronology. But one can also choose a different order. This order is not random; it is arbitrary. It often depends on the author's intention and the effects they want to create in the viewer. "A dozen scenes can be assembled in a thousand and one different ways," writes Frank Capra, "but only one or two will give a narrative. (...) A teacher once brought us twenty shots representing a dog show in which his daughter had entered her dog. I edited the sequence in chronological order. (...) It was more boring than rain. I needed a narrative, an angle. I re-edited the shots from the winning dog's point of view. Better, but tricky. I then decided to edit the sequence from the girl's point of view. (...) The film immediately blossomed, provoking laughter and tears. I was discovering another principle of entertainment: what interests people most are people."

Capra was also discovering the difference between history and narrative. Because the narrative, precisely, is the arrangement of the events of a story in a chosen and specific order.

2. MEANING

"If for young children, the one who educates is the schoolmaster, for the older ones, it is the poet."
(Aeschylus in "The Frogs")
"There is no better tool in the world for solving social problems than telenovelas."
(Miguel Sabido)
"You don't write to say something, you write because you have something to say."
(Francis Scott Fitzgerald)
"... do not write an unnecessary word in the interest of form but bend the form in the interest of what is to be said."
(Arthur Miller)
"Every author must start by asking what they want to say, but they should never feel they have a mission."
(Krzysztof Piesiewicz)

A. THE FIRST POINT OF THE LINE

I see many authors who don't know how to approach writing, how to continue, and how to finish. They feel (rightly) that there are many elements to consider, so many that they will never get through them. So they decide to play the spontaneity card, jot down what comes to mind, and move forward blindly. In short, they make a gigantic bet on their instinct and genius. The image that comes to me every time is that of an individual who takes a dozen points in space and tries to draw a line through them. Unless by miraculous accident, it results in anything but a line.

A better chance of obtaining a line is to reduce the number of points, that is, to sort through all their ideas, to channel the bursts of blood. A better chance still is to proceed in order and logically. This is the method I propose in this book. If you take a first point and a direction, you have a chance of obtaining a line. The second point will logically depend on the first, the third on the first and second, etc., etc. Of course, this will not give a perfect line. And perhaps that's for the best. Small imperfections sometimes contribute to the beauty and uniqueness of a work. But it can help avoid major imperfections.

One might think that the first point of the line is the dramatic pitch, or one of the themes, or the subject, or the premises. I don't believe so. In my opinion, the first point of the line is your general intention, that is, the meaning you want your narrative to convey. This meaning is often unconscious, but it necessarily exists. All the reflections in this chapter have one goal: to convince you to understand your general intention to write better.

Be careful not to confuse meaning and internal trajectory. Evolving a character can enrich a narrative and/or give it depth. But that will give a meaning (a utility) to your narrative, not necessarily meaning (a purpose). Conversely, there are works in which no character evolves and yet they say something. "No Man's Land" is a beautiful illustration. No one grows, but the film conveys a powerful message.

The spark of departure

In April 1968, Martin Luther King Jr. is assassinated on the balcony of his motel by a shooter posted in a hotel room across the street. Upon hearing the news, Francis Veber visualizes the scene and wonders what would have happened if the shooter had been disturbed by the hotel maid. From this question were born the play "Le Contrat" (1969) and its film adaptation "L'Emmerdeur" (1973). In 1978, Stephen King's cat is run over and buried in a pet cemetery created by children. King then wonders what would happen if his cat came back to life. This led to "Pet Sematary." In 1980, Bob Gale flips through his father's high school album and wonders: "What if I had been in the same class as my father, would we have been friends?" This question eventually gave rise to "Back to the Future."

The reasons that lead an author to want to tell a story are multiple and varied. It can be a news item (as for Francis Veber), an experience lived by the author (as for Stephen King), a historical character, a message to convey to the world, a desire to challenge the zeitgeist, a paradoxical question (the famous "What if...?" of Bob Gale and strong premises in general), etc.

Each time, a small spark ignites the author's desire to embark on writing. I don't think there are more noble or desirable sparks than others. They are all respectable. And they all have a common faculty: they make the author vibrate. The process is partly unconscious. But each spark speaks enough to the author for them to want to spend a year or more on a specific universe and characters. However, a starting point does not seem sufficient to me to embark on writing. The starting point is not the first point of the line I mentioned earlier, even if it often contains it unconsciously.

Starting idea and point of view

Imagine you find a great idea for a short story: the story of a photographer, immobilized in his apartment by an accident, who starts observing his neighbors through the window and one day believes he discovers that one of his neighbors is a murderer. Tempting, isn't it?

In fact, what you have just found is not an idea for a short story but a starting idea for a short story. You think you have a subject when you only have premises. Suppose that, without further ado, you undertake the writing of this film. It is clear that with this same starting point, you can end up with thirty-six different works. "Rear Window" is one of them. But one can also imagine that the neighbor is not a murderer, and by snooping around, the photographer completely ruins his life. Not only is it not the same narrative at all (with, nevertheless, the same starting point), but the moral is not the same either. William Irish's short story shows us that curiosity and interference are legitimate even if they can prove dangerous. The second scenario shows us that curiosity is a bad trait.

Who says that by plunging headlong into writing your starting idea, you will obtain the work that suits you, the work that most deeply corresponds to your personality? In other words, if you do not ask yourself why you want to tell this story and not another, what deeply interests you in such or such a starting point, you risk being guided by your unconscious.

Unconscious: Advantages and Disadvantages

I am intimately convinced that every human being, whether author or spectator, unconsciously knows the great principles of narrative. More so, I think that an author who starts writing a subject has within them all the ingredients to make a good narrative. I have observed this many times in my workshops: everything is there, in the head of each author. The whole difficulty lies in correctly bringing out what exists unconsciously and translating under a form acceptable to others the ideal narrative you have in your head. Because the unconscious often plays tricks on us, and letting it run free can pose several problems.

First, the unconscious contains the inherent barbarity in each of us. This is how we see works that are clearly misogynistic, racist, sadistic, militaristic, homophobic, etc., whose authors vehemently defend themselves from being driven by such intentions. They are often sincere. They just forgot that the barbaric core in question can express itself unconsciously in multiple human activities (including artistic creation). From this point of view, one can say that a work of art, and a fortiori a discursive work like a novel, a play, or a screenplay, is always a magnificent Freudian slip. That is, the symptom of the author's beliefs, fantasies, and concerns.

Second, the unconscious tends to mix everything and does not always express its ideas appropriately. The idea emerges in the conscious in its raw state. When it deigns to emerge. Thus, it may suddenly occur to you that your protagonist could do this or that when in fact the idea would be much better suited to the main opponent. We will return to this phenomenon with what I call the "trick of permutation."

Third, in our unconscious, there is what is called an "internal saboteur" that has been passed down to us by our educators and sometimes prevents us from being in harmony with our deep self - which is also unconscious, which does not make things easier.

Fourth, the unconscious of a dramatic author is partially nourished by clichés and situations seen in others. On this subject, a funny story circulates in cinema circles. Hitchcock tells it to Truffaut, but it is likely that he did not invent it. It is the story of a screenwriter who wakes up one morning and realizes he dreamed of an absolutely brilliant film subject. Unfortunately, he forgot it. He thinks he will manage to dream it again and remember it. But the next day, the same story. He dreamed of this brilliant subject again but still cannot remember it. He then understands what he must do: force himself to wake up at the end of the dream, jot down the subject on a notepad at hand, and go back to sleep peacefully. That's what he does. The next day, he remembers he dreamed but still does not remember the subject. He begins to curse himself when he realizes that this time, he took notes on a notepad in the middle of the night. He goes to his bedside table, all excited, and reads: "Boy falls in love with a girl."

B. THE INTEREST OF DETERMINING MEANING

Meaning before the tool

All the mechanisms of dramaturgy, starting with conflict, generate emotion, thus interest for the spectator. But they also generate meaning. This is the case, for example, with characterization. Depending on whether your photographer's neighbor, in the courtyard opposite, is a murderer or not, the narrative does not have the same meaning.

All these tools are at your disposal to help you translate your thoughts and make them accessible. But before knowing which tool to use and how, it is necessary to know the meaning you want to create, whether locally or generally. It is therefore necessary to know your intention, your thought. How can you determine the characterization of the protagonist or the dramatic response if you do not know what you want to tell? In the example of the photographer and his murderous neighbor, you will be tempted to take the photographer as the protagonist. It is clear that this works in the first case ("Rear Window"). But not at all in the second. If the neighbor's life is ruined by the photographer, the protagonist - the one who will experience the most conflict - will rather be the neighbor. Isn't it preferable that the point of view, the meaning, the thought, the intention impose the choice of tools rather than the reverse?

Moreover, the author's point of view is a formidable sorting agent. It is easier to keep or discard an idea (of conflict, character, scene, activity, etc.) when you know what you want to say. And this proves absolutely essential when writing with others.

On the power of drama and images

Some may wonder if it is really necessary to have a clear point of view since, anyway, it will not change the spectators. Regarding "La Grande Illusion," which attempts to show that the gap is
greater between social classes than between nations, Jean Renoir expressed his bitterness: he made his film in 1937, and the war still happened. He concluded that cinema has no power. This is doubly naive (or incredibly pretentious). It is naive to believe that a film—or a play (cf. The Trojan War Will Not Take Place, which references the imminence of World War II)—can stop the gigantic forces leading to war, and when it doesn't work, to immediately conclude that drama has no influence. Drama surely has an influence, but it is almost impossible to measure. One thing is certain: experience, and particularly emotion, transforms a human being more surely than a speech. An "affective awareness" is much more effective than a rational awareness. Jean Piaget demonstrated that it is concrete experience that determines a change in our way of perceiving and reacting to reality and leads us to modify our thinking, not the other way around. The spectator of a dramatic work experiences an affective experience by identifying with the protagonist and living through some of their conflicts. It certainly doesn't have the strength of a real experience, but it is likely to leave traces. In his adaptation of Tartuffe, Murnau expresses the idea that theater or cinema can enrich people. We see a disinherited grandson (André Mattoni) project a film within the film (Tartuffe) to his grandfather (Hermann Picha) to open his eyes to the hypocrisy of his servant (Rosa Valetti). Murnau does not go so far as to show that the grandfather is transformed by watching a film, but it makes him doubt and he dismisses the schemer.

If Murnau had shot Tartuffe two years later, after Sunrise, he might have gone further. The filmmaker indeed experienced an edifying story upon the release of his first American film. Sunrise tells the story of a farmer (George O'Brien) who considers killing his wife (Janet Gaynor) to live with another woman. Ultimately, he understands his mistake and returns to the right path. Upon its release, Murnau received a package containing revolver bullets and a letter. A viewer, who was in the same situation as the film's protagonist, had realized his mistake and thanked Murnau for opening his eyes.

In the same vein, we can also cite what David Phillips called the "Werther effect." The publication of Goethe's The Sorrows of Young Werther had such a real census in Europe (at the end of the 18th century) that it provoked a wave of suicides (mirroring Werther's unfortunate end). In The Art of Change, Nardone and Watzlawick explain that a literary or dramatic narrative can strongly influence certain individuals and can be used for therapeutic purposes. Conversely, it is known that hearing about insecurity or terrorism every day on television can end up making people fearful and, for example, influence their vote. In Jai Santoshi Maa, the deity recreated for the film's needs pleased the audience so much that a cult is now dedicated to her in India! Bill Plympton claims that his mother quit smoking after watching his short film 25 Ways to Quit Smoking—which is so delirious that one might forget the seriousness of the subject. There is no doubt that documentaries like Fahrenheit 9/11, Super Size Me, or The Corporation have an influence. After watching The Corporation, some viewers decided to stop drinking milk (full of antibiotics) or to boycott certain brands. The manga Say Hello to Black Jack prompted Japanese authorities to revalue the salaries of medical interns. The broadcast of The Rage of the Young on Iranian television led to an increase in toothpaste sales. Finally, Jaws, which, during the summer of its release (1975), encouraged many swimmers to stay safely on the sand. In short, a narrative or images can have an influence. Just because it is difficult to measure doesn't mean it should be neglected. On another, even deeper power of the image, one can read with interest How Hitchcock Taught Me by Serge Tisseron.

For all that, does a human being go to the cinema or theater to change? Hard to say. Perhaps unconsciously. Growing is one of the major concerns of human beings. But it also depends on what they go to see. There is little chance that Funny Games (1997) or Hannibal (2001) will make us more human, but we can appreciate that Oedipus Rex or It's a Wonderful Life (1946) enrich us.

Social education on a large scale

A Mexican screenwriter, Miguel Sabido, deserves a moment's attention for his work. In the mid-60s, he launched a movement that still inspires many authors worldwide. Convinced that popular television series are the ideal vehicle for advancing social causes, Sabido developed a system based on the learning theories of psychologist Albert Bandura. These theories essentially postulate that a human being changes their behavior by observing and imitating others, thus engaging their mirror neurons. Sabido thought that a television series could change viewers' behaviors if they identify with characters facing social problems and evolving. He launched soap operas addressing delicate themes: female genital mutilation, homosexuality, domestic violence, illiteracy, HIV, malaria, etc. Quickly, positive effects were felt. Accompany Me, for example, which deals with contraception, led to a decrease in birth rates in Mexico. Immediately, many authors were inspired by Sabido's work. Hum Log, one of the first Indian soap operas, successfully campaigned against forced marriage. Taru, a radio soap opera, advocated for equal treatment between girls and boys and led to the creation of schools for disadvantaged children. A South African doctor, Garth Japhet, convinced that "telling stories to convey wisdom and teach people to live better is as old as the world," launched a series called Soul City to improve the quality of life of his fellow citizens. The results are there.

The "I" is likable

However, in my opinion, it is not primarily to change the viewer that it is important for an author to be aware of their work, to take a stand, and to have a point of view. It is to:

1. Create a personal, strictly personal work;
2. Have the first point of their line and choose the most appropriate form. Meaning before the tool rather than the tool before the meaning, as we have just seen;
3. Have a standard, a tool for sorting. Not just to sort the wheat from the chaff, the cortical from the reptilian. But also to sort the tools themselves;
4. Possibly, write with others. Collaborations rarely fail for artisanal reasons. When they fail, it's because the authors didn't realize they didn't want to say the same thing;
5. Be honest with the viewer: by saying "I" and not "we." This goes beyond point number 1 (satisfying personal interest). Here, it is about respecting the viewer's interest.

The viewer appreciates knowing or feeling the author's point of view, even if it differs from their own. Because a fully assumed point of view allows the viewer to form their own opinion. It leaves the viewer free. "The assumed point of view inevitably leads to dialectics," wrote Jérôme Soubeyrand in 2004. "We all remember, after leaving the cinema with friends, confronting our points of view and arguing until late at night. It's hard to experience something like that after watching an episode of a French TV series, an American blockbuster, or a CNC-labeled art film. Their representations of reality have taken care to lift the point of view as much as possible. This fiction, I call it 'veritarist' because it wants to make me believe that what I saw is not a 'point of view' but 'The Real.'"

Is it because systems like French television, Hollywood studios, or the National Center for Cinematography tend to play ideological Procrustes that authors don't ask themselves enough about meaning?

As soon as works of art start to resemble many of their neighbors, when decision-makers claim to know what viewers want, when selection committees favor a single thought, in short, when a smaller common denominator prevails, authors end up no longer saying "I" but "we." The narrative has a strong symbolic function, a function of representing reality, which makes storytellers responsible to society. One of their very first responsibilities is not to deprive viewers of their free will. To do this, one must have a personal point of view, one must say "I."

In 1964, to engaged journalists who thought that the world at the time required an ambiguous point of view and that all works should reflect this, Orson Welles replied: "I believe I have never made a film without having a solid ethical point of view on its story. (...) The characters are ambiguous, but the meaning of the work is not." Everything is said.

An underexploited potential

Knowing what you are telling can also prevent you from frustrating or disappointing the viewer. We have all had, in cinema, theater, comics, television, the impression that authors found a great subject or premise and forgot to exploit it, or didn't dare to go all the way, perhaps due to not having done a maturation work before writing. This is the case, in my opinion, of The Castafiore Emerald in which Hergé has the originality of taking Haddock and not Tintin as the protagonist but doesn't go all the way with his audacity (cf. Dramaturgy, chapter 5). It's also the case with The Big Blue and Multiplicity. But the examples are legion. Upon the release of The Big Blue, Luc Besson repeatedly stated in the press that he wanted to oppose, in his film, the spirit of competition to fraternity: "On land, there is suspicion, sideways glances, jealousy, deceit, hatred. Underwater, outside of meals, everyone mingles without aggression." In the film, it's the character of Jacques Mayol (Jean-Marc Barr) who embodies the values of the sea. However, at the end of the film, his competition with Enzo (Jean Reno) resumes. It's about who will dive the deepest in apnea. (N.B. Warning, what follows reveals the end of the film.) Jacques knows they are at the limit of what is humanly possible. He also knows that Enzo won't give up, precisely because Enzo represents the "values of the land," he has a competitor's mentality. The doctors have asked them to stop; it becomes too dangerous. What should Jacques do if he truly represents the values of the sea? And what should Luc Besson do if he wants to show that these values are harmonious? In my opinion, Jacques should have broken the record but kept it to himself. Besson and his co-writers should have shown us the record plaque before Jacques lets it sink and then surfaces pretending he didn't succeed, thus refusing competition and its ravages, and leaving victory (and life) to Enzo. But that's not what Jacques does. He surfaces with the plaque. Enzo is stung in his pride, decides to dive, and kills himself. If it was really necessary for Enzo to die at the end—to show, for example, that the feeling of omnipotence can be fatal—we can imagine that Jacques pretends he failed, that Enzo doesn't believe him and dives anyway. Or that Jacques, who at one point says to Enzo "I don't cheat with you," is torn between telling the truth and wanting to protect his friend, that this dilemma is dramatized. But we have none of that, and at the end of The Big Blue, it seems to me that Besson missed not an enticing or debatable point (depending on taste) but what he declared to be his point.

Multiplicity tells the misadventures of Doug (Michael Keaton), a construction contractor whose main characteristic is being overwhelmed. One day, by chance, he meets a scientist (Harris Yulin) capable of cloning a human being. In fact, the scientist has cloned himself and lives with his double. He offers Doug to duplicate him to solve his overloaded schedule problem. Doug agrees. The scientist then creates a first double, then a second, then a third. The premises are enticing. They constitute a golden metaphor to talk about two great classics of human mental illnesses: workaholism and ultrasolutions. The word "workaholism" is an English neologism constructed from "work" and "alcoholism." It refers to this well-known neurosis worldwide that consists of losing oneself in work. We could translate "workaholic" as "workaholic." Like Doug, workaholics are overwhelmed, accept more things to do than their schedule allows, and expend enormous energy to ensure. Like Doug, they secretly aspire to do less but rarely succeed. The problem with Multiplicity is that it doesn't really present Doug's issue as a compulsion for which he is responsible. While Doug is lying on a couch, ready to self-examine, the wise cloner even goes so far as to tell him that his problem is not psychological. At that moment, a great opportunity to address the subject in depth is missed. We could have imagined, for example, that with one clone at work and another at home, Doug would have a hard time enjoying his free time. Because, for a workaholic, spending an hour doing nothing is terribly anxiety-inducing. But that's not the case. He plays golf and sails between two superficial adventures.

Still in this vein, Doug would have eventually realized that his problem doesn't disappear with clones and that more and more solutions feed the problem instead of solving it. This is one of the forms of ultrasolution, a phenomenon theorized by Paul Watzlawick. When the wise cloner in Multiplicity presents his own clone and suggests to Doug that it has improved his life, the authors clearly announce that they won't have the ambition to address the problem of ultrasolutions. It would have been necessary, for that, for Doug to go find the scientist, for the latter to have never cloned human beings, and for Doug to insist on being cloned, against the scientist's advice, the latter anticipating the difficulties to come.

In short, instead of making the equivalent of Groundhog Day on workaholism and ultrasolutions, the authors of Multiplicity made an amusing and superficial film. They missed their subject. Americans do this regularly. They set up an inventive and meaningful technology and, instead of exploiting its social, moral, or political consequences, instead of questioning said technology or even their own system, they serve us a thriller that ends in cliché (Minority Report) or an adventure film with lots of shootouts (Inception). The premises are enticing, the universe is spectacular, but the treatment ends up being basic or even childish. I think of an exception, though: Final Cut.

Finding your general intention

Where does meaning lie?

Meaning is everywhere in a dramatic work. It is found particularly in:

- The characterization of the protagonist and their journey. Cf. above;
- The objective. Both in the content of the objective and in the perception the viewer has of it. When you determine an objective, local or general, always ask yourself if you want the viewer to agree or not with the holder of this objective. Do you want your viewer to approve the objective? Do you want the viewer to hope for a positive dramatic response? All answers are valid. Simply, it will not be experienced the same way by the viewer and therefore will not create the same narrative. We will return to this on page 150;
- The motivations. Stealing money to buy a third Ferrari does not have the same meaning as stealing money to pay for an eye operation for a poor blind person (cf. City Lights);
- The actions and reactions. Showing humans reacting in such or such a way is necessarily a discourse on human nature;
- The endings: climax, dramatic response, third act. If you tell the story of a teenager from a disadvantaged background who aims to get out of drugs, your point, that is, the meaning you give to your narrative, will not be the same if the teenager achieves their goal or not. Pages 281-282, I cite works whose endings are remarkable and... significant;
- The setups. Preparation is a powerful generator of meaning. A simple pebble (Departures), a mere broken mirror (The Apartment), a tiny bell sound (The Life of Galileo), can mean a lot if they have been carefully prepared;

and investigates to understand what is happening to him. In the middle of the film, a crime—that has been predicted and should occur because its perpetrator has not been preventively arrested—is not committed. The victim dies, certainly, but not at the hands of the announced murderer. This important twist should lead Anderton to question his profession and the system he serves. Could there be innocents among the people he has arrested and imprisoned? If predicted and unprevented crimes ultimately do not occur, there is a serious flaw in the prediction system. But neither the film nor Philip K. Dick's original story addresses this question. It is simply mentioned in the first act, before the narrative turns into yet another chase. As often in American cinema, the problem comes from the villain, hence a rotten apple, not the system itself which is untouchable.

- Comedy. All comedy is an invitation to let go as well as a discourse on human limitations and the relatively limited relevance of our free will. That's why when a critic says of The Dinner Game "We laugh but we only laugh," they are gravely missing the point. They haven't understood the film, as they say. Not only is laughter a remedy that deserves all honors, but also a good comedy is always a fair look at life and human nature. A joke, for example, always has significance. That's why it's futile to tell someone who got offended: "But I'm joking! It was for fun!" Unconsciously, people know there is meaning behind every joke. At most, one could reproach a good comedy for reinventing the wheel and always saying the same thing about humans. A dangerous trial because authors have been saying roughly the same thing about humans for thirty centuries, whether their treatment is serious or comedic. When James Cameron shows the cowardice of some and the courage of others in Titanic, one can acknowledge him for making a nice discourse on human nature. One can also say that he shows what we have already seen in Macbeth, Platoon, or The Wages of Fear.

The difficulty of knowing one's intention

Many authors do not seek to know their intention, perhaps because it requires courage and energy. Not only can it be frightening to delve deep within oneself, but also finding one's deep motivations is not always an easy task. For some, it is even extremely difficult. It sometimes takes several years and several works for an author to finally realize what motivates them and what they are telling. But it is also, for us authors, one of the great interests of narrative activity: to get to know ourselves better.

On the difficulty of identifying one's deep motivations, an experiment deserves to be reported. An individual is placed under hypnosis. They are given the instruction to open their umbrella that evening at 8 p.m. wherever they are, whatever the circumstances. Then they are brought out of their hypnotic state, taking care to make them forget the instruction. The day goes by normally, sunny, and at exactly 8 p.m., while in their living room, the individual gets up, grabs their umbrella, and opens it. Their wife, astonished, asks what is going on. Wisdom would suggest that our character questions their motivations and responds: "You're right, what am I doing? What I just did is absurd." But not at all. Our man confidently finds a good reason for his gesture. He will explain, for example, that it might rain tomorrow.
and he wanted to check if his umbrella was working properly. Our subject was what Freud called "rationalization." Many psychologists believe that we act like this every day in response to inappropriate unconscious commands that stem from our reptilian brain or are inherited from our upbringing. Every day, we open umbrellas in our living room, and every day, we invent an excuse to justify our action. This shows how difficult it is to truly understand what motivates us.

Pure entertainment?
Another possibility is that authors have no intention at all, their sole aim being to entertain. And yet... We've seen purely commercial films, produced to entertain the masses, develop a point of view. It's even one of the specialties of American cinema. In The Poseidon Adventure, a typical Hollywood disaster film, the protagonist (Gene Hackman) is a priest. His goal is to survive the sinking of a ship. His means: to go ahead and seek help. At the beginning of the film, he fights against passengers who prefer to wait quietly for assistance. Events will prove them wrong. In short, The Poseidon Adventure is not just an entertaining interlude; it illustrates a famous adage: "Help yourself, and Heaven will help you." It's no coincidence that the author of the novel chose to make his protagonist a priest—a characterization exploited towards the end. Of course, it's not a very deep message likely to shake humanity. But it proves that you can entertain people without being completely hollow. Regarding Uranus, whose action takes place in France after the Liberation and features communists, resistance fighters, liberals, Christians, and former collaborators, Claude Berri declared he had no point of view, not wanting to take sides with any of the characters because no one is black or white. But what is this position if not precisely a point of view?

I remember the release of Jurassic Park in 1993. It was all about special effects, digital images, world box office records, weak storytelling, and the commercialization of merchandise. It's true that, structurally, the script resembles a pretext for a big roller coaster ride. Yet, it was forgotten to mention that the film written by Michael Crichton and David Koepp develops a point of view: "You shouldn't play with nature; life always finds a way." This point of view is both stated in two scenes and shown by the entire film. Who can say that the decision-makers of tomorrow won't have been (partly) sensitized to the risks of genetics by Jurassic Park?

American special effects films often suffer this fate. The Mask similarly received many comments about its connections to Tex Avery or its digital tricks. Who pointed out that the story dealt with the mask everyone wears within themselves? It's superficial, certainly, but it's still mentioned. Back to the Future gently addresses the Oedipus complex since, after going back thirty years, Marty (Michael Fox) aims to push his future mother into the arms of his future father. He thus finds himself facing his teenage mother (Lea Thompson) who tries to seduce him. In Time After Time, H.G. Wells (Malcolm McDowell) and Jack the Ripper (David Warner) are propelled into American society in 1979. The latter adapts much faster and more easily than the former. Isn't that meaningful? Yes, of course. But some persist in seeing these films as mere distractions. Implying for Theodor Adorno and his heirs: unworthy products.

The saying or scene that summarizes the general intention
A trick can be useful to help you know your general intention: find a saying, a proverb, that summarizes or illustrates your story. It's not as difficult as it seems, since there is a proverb to justify everything and its opposite.

Another trick: look for the scene that summarizes or illustrates the work's message. It sometimes exists. In Time After Time, it's the scene where Jack turns on the television, shows Wells the horrors, wars, and violence of our time, and says: "I belong here." In No Man's Land, it's the last scene and even the last image, terrible. In Victor Victoria, it's a discussion scene between Victoria (Julie Andrews) and King Marchan (James Garner), in the latter's room. She asks him to let her continue to disguise herself because it's her only way to work and be someone. He wants her to stop because he doesn't want people to think he's in love with a transvestite. The discussion revolves around image issues, the gaze of others, the duality of femininity/virility within each of us. This scene summarizes the entire point of view of the film directed by Blake Edwards.

Ikiru tells the story of a dull bureaucrat, Watanabe (Takashi Shimura), who one day learns he has terminal cancer. He decides not to return to work, takes some "good" time before deciding to do something with the months he has left. (N.B. Beware, what follows reveals the end of the film.) At the end of the second act, a voice-over announces that Watanabe is dead. The third act is quite long. It shows Watanabe's wake during which his colleagues discuss his determination, leading to many small flashbacks. We thus learn how Watanabe spent his last months. He fought to have a playground installed in his town. The colleagues eventually understand that knowing his imminent death gave Watanabe the strength to mobilize against corruption and bureaucracy, which they don't have the courage to do. It's then that one of them says: "We are all mortal." Silence... This is the moment that summarizes the general intention of Ikiru.

Hamlet contains several key scenes of this type. I'll highlight two. The one where Hamlet jokes about Polonius's death (dining with worms) and explains to the king the cycle "beggar eats fish, fish eats worm, worm eats king" (IV/3). In other words, a king can end up in a beggar's intestine. And the often-illustrated one where Hamlet talks about Yorick, the king's jester, while looking at his skull (V/1): cheerful one day, cadaverous the next.

In the middle of Groundhog Day, Phil (Bill Murray) has almost succeeded in seducing Rita (Andie MacDowell). She and he have fun having a snowball fight with children. But Phil overdoes it. Rita realizes he's not sincere. She ends up slapping him. Then follows a dozen slaps in quick succession. The film's point of view being that to escape the repetitive psychological games that poison our lives, one must be authentic, we see that this scene expresses it negatively.

Beware, even though I just used it, the expression "key scene" can be misleading. Because there are all sorts of key scenes in a dramatic work, starting with climaxes and resolutions of dramatic irony. These are not necessarily the scenes where the author's point of view is developed.

The pot of intimacy and authenticity
Sometimes this scene of general intention is the hardest to write or even the one the author unconsciously avoids. Generally, it's because it's in this scene that the author is truly authentic or vulnerable (or both). And it's scary to expose oneself, to be truly oneself. But stopping to beat around the bush and facing this scene is extremely beneficial, for the work as well as for the author. Because missing the pot means missing the work.

One day, in a workshop, I forced an author to write the scene he had been avoiding for several sessions. I told him to put his two characters face to face and say what they had to say. No matter if it was clumsy. No matter if the scene wasn't to remain in the final story. But the abscess had to be lanced. I added that I wouldn't start any other work of this author until this scene was written. When he arrived at the workshop the next day, he had changed physically. It was spectacular. He had written the scene. He read it to us. It was moving. The author had finally unblocked his project.

It's because I've often seen screenwriters refuse to enter the pot and embark on writing without knowing what they really wanted to tell that I insist so much on the question of hidden and deep meaning. And this phenomenon is not only seen in writing workshops. Every week, plays or films lacking coherence are released. Conversely, I've observed that in-depth and conscious work on intention and motivations can improve writing—whether at the development stage or during a script doctoring session on a complete draft.

First draft of an intention note
The intention note is a document often required by reading committees. The natural tendency is to write it when the story is finished and ready to be sent to the commission. What if you wrote your intention note before even writing a line of text?

Indeed, an intention note often includes two parts: one dedicated to the why and one to the how. The second part is usually written by the director. They will talk about the form they envision to embody the story. But the first part, which is best written by the author, can very well be written before the story is written. Of course, it can be amended once the text is finished.

The trash test
In some cases, the author doesn't lack intention. On the contrary, they are motivated by several elements. They want to say this, but there's also that character that interests them. And then there's also this. And if they could include that... Again, the image that comes to mind is that of an individual trying to draw a single line through four or five points in space. A good way to know the one and only point from which everything else will be built is to pass the so-called "trash test." Simply answer honestly the question: "If, in everything that motivates you, you had to throw everything away, absolutely everything, and keep only one element, what would it be?" It's just a simulation. It's often painful because choices have to be made. But it's always instructive. And useful. Once you've decided on the element to keep at all costs, and the message that goes with it, you take it as a starting point and create your line from it.

Know how to recognize the best subject
There is another scenario, rarer but just as damaging, which consists of missing not the subject but a more exciting subject than the one being treated. When the viewer realizes this, their frustration at seeing a good subject slip away will be all the more intense because the work that alludes to it is not captivating.

If you feel you have an even stronger subject than the one you're writing, one of two things: either you refrain from mentioning it in your story to avoid whetting the viewer's appetite, or you completely abandon what you're writing to embark on developing the stronger subject.

N.B. On this scenario, I will not provide examples. If you allow me, I prefer to keep to myself the lovely untreated subjects I've spotted here and there.

Be aware of potential pitfalls
The problem of didacticism
Some claim that starting a story with a preconceived idea can be dangerous and lead straight to didacticism. Certainly, you must avoid reducing your story to explaining an idea, to demonstrating a thesis. But if you don't forget to create emotion and interest in the viewer (protagonist - objective - obstacles, for example), you have little chance of falling into didacticism.

Sartre achieves this wonderfully with No Exit—whether one agrees with his philosophy or not. Chaplin has a very clear point of view in The Great Dictator and only falls into didacticism in the speech scene at the end. In Right You Are (If You Think So), Pirandello has one of his characters say what his play shows very well. It's didactic and unnecessary. In these last two cases, if the authors had removed the didactic scenes, their message would have remained intact. Waiting for Godot, Rhinoceros, The Trojan War Will Not Take Place, Modern Times, It's a Wonderful Life (1946), or The Journey of Mr. Perrichon, to take a few examples among many others, clearly convey a point of view and never fall into didacticism. Danis Tanović thinks that prevention is the solution against war. It's with this point of view that he says he undertook No Man's Land. It resulted in a powerful, entertaining, and not at all didactic outcome.

Engaged but not didactic
It's hard to imagine Aristophanes, Capra, Chaplin, Costa-Gavras, Eisenstein, Ibsen, Molière, or Sartre starting a work without knowing what they want to put into it. In the case of Brecht and Shaw, it's even more evident. They wrote clearly to say something. Or, at least, as Francis Scott Fitzgerald said, because they had something to say.

Through epic theater, Brecht sought to educate the viewer. And he didn't hide it. The prologue of The Caucasian Chalk Circle, often omitted from performances, presents two groups of peasants disputing the exploitation of a land. To whom should it belong? To those who have a title deed? Or to those who will make the best use of it? To answer this question, a singer appears and proposes to tell a Chinese legend, which constitutes the rest of the play. How to say more explicitly that theater can convey an enlightening point of view and even that it is made for that?

As for Shaw, he declared loudly that he didn't believe in construction, despite his admiration for Ibsen, and that only ideas deserved attention. One of his main arguments was that people would listen to a one-and-a-half-hour lecture, so why not a play full of ideas? Let's be honest, the argument isn't very good. First, the audience for lectures isn't the same as for theaters, and even if it were, one doesn't expect from a play what one expects from a lecture.

Moreover, thinking that a lecture doesn't need to be structured (and even sexy) can lead to serious disillusionment. But, fortunately for us, there is, as with Brecht, a Shaw theorist and a Shaw playwright. The theorist opposed ideas and construction as if they were incompatible. The playwright wanted to stand out from Sardou and well-made plays. This didn't prevent him, like Molière or Ibsen, from brilliantly using the mechanisms of drama to say what he wanted to say and thus... avoid didacticism.

I find it more surprising to note that artists like Milos Forman, Woody Allen, Steven Spielberg, or Jirô Taniguchi—who are not openly militant—have also been driven by an intention before undertaking some of their works. When The Firemen's Ball was released in Czechoslovakia in 1967, the firemen threatened to resign because, they said, they were mocked in it. During a special meeting, Milos Forman explained to them that it was a misunderstanding: in his mind, The Firemen's Ball was not a film about firemen but about the government. Forman wanted to criticize his administration and chose a metaphor to do so.

In a 2002 documentary, Woody Allen explains what motivated him to write his films. We learn with interest that he rarely embarks on a story blindly, relying on his unconscious to give it meaning. At the start of most of his films, Woody Allen has a clear point of view, almost a thesis to illustrate. With Zelig, for example, he wanted to mock those people who don't hesitate to renounce their opinion to avoid making waves and to belong to a group. Watching Zelig, one might think Woody Allen found a strong premise (the story of a chameleon man) and just found it amusing to treat it. Well, no, he had something to say, and he chose the metaphor of Zelig for that.

I thought Close Encounters of the Third Kind was the film of a gifted child playing with his obsessions and favorite themes. Until I heard Steven Spielberg declare in 2007: "In 1975-76, when I was writing Close Encounters of the Third Kind, I wasn't as politically aware as I am today. And yet the Cold War, the lack of dialogue between the Russians and the Americans, Watergate, Nixon's impeachment, in short, everything that was happening at that time gave me the impression of a huge communication abyss. It's gotten worse since. You could say that Close Encounters of the Third Kind was my first attempt to deliver a message: if we can communicate with aliens, why can't we communicate with each other?"

Jirô Taniguchi thinks that some experiences can change our way of living. In the afterword to A Distant Neighborhood, he explains that he wanted to show that every human being, during their life, can discover the few essential things that really matter to them. He then imagined a story in which a man haunts the body of a teenager, the time to erase the slate he has with his wife and daughter. It results in a manga so poignant that it's impossible, between sobs, to think that the author is telling us something. And yet...

These four works, The Firemen's Ball, Zelig, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, and A Distant Neighborhood, are metaphorical narratives. The Anglo-Saxons have long mastered the art of conceiving modern allegories. It's one of the reasons why they are the kings of fantasy and science fiction. It's also one of the reasons why they can entertain while saying something. Like a good ointment: a quality active ingredient in an effective excipient.

An example of didactic construction
One can be didactic through dialogue (cf. The Great Dictator or Right You Are (If You Think So), above). One can also be didactic through the very structure of the narrative.

In Mély-mélodrame, a couple abandons their dog on the vacation road. The dog believes it fell out of the car and seeks to rejoin its owners—thought bubbles allow us to understand what the dog thinks. After various adventures, it ends up finding them at the bottom of a ravine, victims of a car accident. It goes to find the police, thus helping to save its owners' lives. They then regret abandoning it.

This short story has everything to work: a triggering incident, a protagonist (the dog) and its goal, obstacles, a climax, etc. And yet, it is clearly didactic. Moreover, the author acknowledges it: "It's melodramatic, it's true!... But we dedicate this story to all those who take an animal as a toy," writes Mittéï in the afterword to his story. But it is not didactic because the author has a point of view. It is because the events (in particular, the discovery of the accident) are not there due to the logic of the action but due to the author's will. They are placed to demonstrate and lack preparation. Didacticism, whether in Mély-mélodrame or in general, does not come from the author having something to say but from saying it clumsily.

This is how one can recognize the off-putting aspect of didacticism while defending the necessity of having a point of view. This is what La Fontaine does in The Shepherd and the Lion: "A bare moral brings boredom; the tale conveys the precept with it. In these kinds of fables, one must instruct and please, and telling for the sake of telling seems to me of little matter." The two notions, instructing and pleasing, are therefore not incompatible. Many board games are both entertaining and educational, and no one complains. On the contrary, it is likely that this dual aspect responds to a need in both the player and the viewer.

Point of view, message, and propaganda
The word "point of view" sometimes scares a little. The proponents of "art for art's sake" ("Three words absolutely devoid of meaning" according to Dumas fils) don't want to hear about it, and some American producers or filmmakers have launched this famous quip: "When I have a message to deliver, I go to the post office." Despite what they say, an author always has at least one point of view: their perception, if not their conception, of the world and aesthetics. This point of view is often unconscious, it sometimes exists despite them, but it exists. All this to say that the word "point of view" does not necessarily designate an ideological message.

You will have understood that in this chapter, I am not inviting you to have a point of view since you necessarily have one, even if only unconsciously. I invite you to know your point of view to better convey it.

The point of view of It's a Wonderful Life (1946), for example, is: "A man who has friends cannot be a failure." It is said once in the film but, above all, it is shown by the entire film. Tennessee Williams was convinced that all his works carried a message. And, according to him, this message was the following: "The tearing need, the screaming need for a gigantic universal effort to better know ourselves and to better know others, or at least to understand that no man has the monopoly on good and virtue any more than any man has the privilege of duplicity, evil, etc."

In many fairy tales or in certain fables like The Lion and the Mouse, the protagonist helps a character for free who returns the favor some time later. This simple motif already contains a point of view: "Help others, they will help you." Moreover, fairy tales are
far from being mere products of entertainment. They convey numerous messages. Here are a few:

- Your negative emotions (fear, jealousy, anger, frustration, sadness, guilt...) are legitimate;
- Nothing shines without friction, but efforts always pay off in the end;
- It's better to choose the long term over the short term;
- It's better to prioritize the reality principle over the pleasure principle;
- We need help; we can't do everything alone;
- Patience is necessary; we can't have everything immediately;
- We can love, we can change, and we can succeed.

E. BEYOND THE GENERAL INTENTION
Bending the rules for a reason

The preliminary work on personal intention discussed in this chapter can be useful if you feel the urge to play with the rules—while remaining Aristotelian, that is, always with the intention of telling a story. For authors who want to deconstruct, here are a few suggestions.

1. First, know the rules well, not just in theory. In other words, master them, as Picasso or Schoenberg mastered those of their respective arts before creating cubism or dodecaphonism.
2. Question your motivations. To the question: "Why do I want to break the rules, deconstruct, put the end at the beginning, remove a piece of the puzzle?" many authors will immediately respond: "Because it will be great" or "Because that's how my story needs to be told." Chances are this is rationalization (like "I wanted to check my umbrella," see above). By digging a little deeper, you can arrive at more sincere answers: "Because I want to emulate a great artist" or "Because I want to stand out" or "To avoid resembling the commercial cinema I despise" or "Because I lack confidence, fear being mediocre if I write a simple story with a beginning, middle, and end, and fear everyone will notice." To those who have the honesty to give these answers, I strongly advise starting by respecting the rules and adopting a simple form. Not only might they be surprised by the result—fear is not always justified—but they will also learn more about life and themselves than by standing on their heads.
3. Ensure that the subject justifies and even demands deconstruction. This is the case in Memento. When you want to tell the story of a character suffering from short-term memory loss, it makes sense to tell the story backward. This is the case in Maus. When you want to work on memory and the importance of bearing witness to a Holocaust survivor, it makes sense to use incessant flashbacks. This is the case in À la folie... pas du tout. When you want to portray an erotomaniac and show that a romantic relationship can be experienced completely differently by each partner, it makes sense to tell the story twice. This is not the case, in my opinion, in Pulp Fiction, Irreversible, or The Three Burials (see pages 241-242). The risk, when deconstructing without being driven by the subject, is to no longer speak about life but about narrative techniques. And while this discourse may sometimes be spectacular and impressive, it is rarely profound.

The question of originality

Another crucial question often linked to meaning: what is the originality of your subject or the way you exploit it? What are you saying, what are you showing that hasn't already been said or shown? Jean-Marie Roth [70] has a lovely phrase: "Everything has already been written but not yet by you." He is right to remind us that all subjects have already been addressed and that everything depends on how they are exploited. He is right to put authors at ease. And at the same time, the mere desire to express oneself does not justify asking financial partners for five million euros and asking thousands of spectators to devote two hours of their lives to watching your work.

If everything has already been told, what angle should you choose to tell your subject differently? Will your work merely fill pipes or enrich humanity's heritage? Be careful, choosing a new angle does not mean everything must be original. If the protagonist, their goal, the inciting incident, and the obstacles are all unique, there is a strong chance you will offer the viewer an alienating experience and lose them. Generally, be original on one or two elements and classic on the rest. In short, follow the often-heard advice in Hollywood: "Do the same thing but different."

If there are authors who have understood the need to stand out from the existing repertoire, they are the creators of police series. Since Nostradamus Agency and Badge 714 in the early 1950s, there have been so many investigative series on television, and their structure is so constant and simplistic that one is forced to find an original angle when creating the thousand-and-first police series. So, we imagine the investigator is talented but full of quirks (Monk) or set the investigation in the Middle Ages (Cadfael) or decide to show crimes from multiple perspectives, a bit like Rashomon (Boomtown). Or, we imagine the criminal is a homeostatic disruptor and the investigator a doctor (Dr. House).

For Fabien Vehlmann [87], a good way to be original is to constantly expand one's general knowledge. "I often use the image of the brain as a vast peanut warehouse where everything is weightless. Each new piece of information received by watching a film, reading a book... are peanuts entering your brain. These peanuts float weightlessly. If you only have three, they never collide. Yet, an idea is two peanuts colliding. So, the more general culture peanuts you accumulate in all possible fields, the more they bump into each other. And the more they come from varied domains, the richer the creations because they don't come from the same semantic field. (...) The problem with many aspiring screenwriters is that they either lack general culture—they loved Tolkien and want to do Tolkien... which can't work—or they have the same culture as ten million people in the world: they've seen Star Wars, Harry Potter, Matrix... It's not a personal culture."

A game of Russian dolls

The act of creation also greatly contributes to discovering meaning. We write better because we know what we want to say, and we understand better what we want to say by writing. Uncovering one's intention is like handling Russian dolls. Each time you open one, there's another, smaller one. For each answer to "Why do I want to tell this?" there's another question: "Yes, but why this answer?"

It's almost impossible to open all the dolls. Even with the finished work, you'll still discover things about your deep motivations, the unconscious reason for this or that element. You might even be surprised by what your story says. Should you undergo psychotherapy before starting to write? No, of course not. But I suggest opening enough Russian dolls, delving deep enough into the maturity of a subject, before starting to compose.

Constantly question your subject and ideas

As we've just seen, the question of meaning arises upstream. An author will undertake a story because they want to mock their government (Aufou, the Firemen) or invite humans to talk to each other (Close Encounters of the Third Kind).

But the question of meaning also arises downstream. It even imposes itself. At each stage, each idea, however small or local it may be, you should ask yourself what it says, if it's consistent with the rest. Because, if an idea doesn't come to you by chance, it still has its own coherence, which may not align with the coherence of your project.

In truth, the question of meaning arises continuously, before the tool as well as after the tool, and at all scales. I can understand that you may not want to question your intention and initial motivations because you lack the energy or fear it will stifle your creativity. Let's admit it. But you must work with a minimum of awareness. Look at Shakespeare's plays. There's a philosophical subject every ten lines. Watch or rewatch American films from the 30s, 40s, and 50s, written at a time when censorship and taboos were powerful, and you'll see how much the authors knew what they were setting up. The allusions and innuendos are countless, even in B-movies.

I strongly encourage you to know what you want to tell and to understand, at every moment and until the end, what you are telling.

The legs?

Another interest in knowing why you want to tell a story and what meaning lies behind this desire is the opportunity to test your motivation. When you find a story idea, it's common to be enthusiastic. That's normal and for the best. But very quickly, two essential questions deserve to be asked: 1 - does my subject have legs, and 2 - do I have legs?

1. Some subjects, especially strong premises, seem exciting at first glance but don't have the potential to fill a second act. It's often the second half of the second act that is likely to be lacking. Before embarking on several months of writing, try to imagine what your subject can yield. You must feel an entire and solid tree behind what is currently just a seed.
2. It takes time and fierce energy to complete a story. And even more to complete a quality story. The causes of discouragement are countless. I believe one of the most powerful motivations to go the distance and to rework twenty times is the desire for the vision and message conveyed by the story to be communicated to the world. Hence the interest in knowing this vision and message.

3. MAJOR CHOICES
Before writing, learn to think.
(Nicolas Boileau [10])
"I don't believe at all in scripts that start without knowing where they're going. (...) It requires a steel framework."
(Suso Cecchi d'Amico [15])
"I then made a mistake often made by young authors: starting to write without having finished building."
(Francis Veber on The Kidnapping [86])

In order

Once you know what you want to tell and why (see chapter 2), it's in your best interest to proceed in order. The metaphor has been used a lot, but it's still useful: you don't start a house with the wallpaper. A play or a feature film script is too rich and complex a creation to be fully grasped by a human brain and justify immediately diving into writing dialogues. It's preferable to start with what we'll call the "foundations," then a list of milestones, then a scene-by-scene (or sequence outline), then a treatment (or non-dialogue continuity), finally arriving at the dialogue continuity. All these tools have three functions. They are first guides for building the story. They also help explore and mature the project. Finally, they are very useful for rewriting, each with its specific function.

If you are a complete beginner, I advise starting with writing short stories or even scenes (see chapter 14) rather than immediately diving into writing a long work. The ideal is to do the same work as on a long work but on a smaller scale. This is entirely possible since the rules contained in this book apply to all stories, regardless of their length. It's one of the applications of the fractal principle.

What exactly are the foundations?

Telling a story, whatever it is, and whatever its quality, is making millions of choices, taking millions of decisions. Some of these decisions are tiny, others a bit more important, up to some that are major. Fundamental. Foundational.

The foundations are simply the sum of the major choices of your story among an infinity of possibilities.

All the stories in the world, good or bad, have foundations. Give me a finished story, any story, and I'll make a list of its major choices. This list may not be entirely coherent, it may have some gaps, some uncertainties, but it will be possible to produce because a self-respecting story necessarily contains major orientations. All the narrators in the world do this work, consciously or unconsciously. The big question is not whether you can do without it, it's impossible when telling a story. The question is whether it's better to make these major choices at the beginning of writing or as you go along, at the whim of circumstances and inspiration, at the risk of being incoherent, getting discouraged, or writing tons of scenes for nothing. You guessed my answer.

Beware, I'm not saying this preliminary work should be set in stone and become untouchable. Anyway, it's not possible. Throughout writing, an author enriches and refines the foundations of their story. But I think it's wise to have a base, a solid direction, to start.

The most important element of the foundations is the dramatic pitch. I dedicate chapter 4 to it. Sometimes, a character in the story transforms. This evolution cannot be done lightly. It's the subject of chapter 5. Finally, we will address all the rest of the foundational work in chapter 6.

A springboard for the imagination

In reading these three chapters and even the one dedicated to structure (chapter 8), some may be tempted to think that all this work is a cerebral activity. Nothing could be further from the truth. Intellectual, yes, necessarily, but not cerebral. Nor theoretical. Answering all the questions posed by the foundations requires creativity and spontaneity, generates emotions in the author, activates their right hemisphere as much as their left hemisphere, and can provide genuine enjoyment, like when you find an exciting idea, a brilliant dialogue, or a powerful payoff. In other words, when I use the term "think" in these chapters, I'm talking about creative reflection, not reasoning or cold, clinical calculation. Enjoy yourself and put your inventiveness to work in creating your foundations and structure.

I add, to reassure artists frightened by these unbearable "formats," that this work on the foundations will never prevent chance, accidents, and poetic licenses. The reason is simple: whatever method is used, an author's unconscious never loses its vigor.

Finally, I point out that the foundations are also a springboard for the reader's imagination. When I read complete and coherent foundations, I see as much of a story as when I read a synopsis.

Research in all directions

As I explained in chapter 2, the first point of the line is meaning. When you know what you want to say, a good way to nourish your project (and therefore the foundations) is to document yourself. This can take various forms. If you have a specific arena (historical or technical, for example), it's imperative to know it well. Hence investigations, readings, visits, interviews...

Regarding the creation of the Buck Danny series, Jean-Michel Charlier [18] stated: "I quickly realized that you couldn't validly tell an aviation story if you didn't pilot yourself. Hence the desire for Hubinon (the illustrator) and me to get our pilot licenses." Excessive professional conscience? No, simple evidence. An author can't know everything, but they must know what they're talking about. Those who, like me, are fascinated by the documentary dimension and the spectacular veracity of The Wire won't be surprised to learn that its creator, David Simon, accompanied police officers for months in the field when he worked for the Baltimore Sun.

We see authors whose only references are the works of others. Thus, in some French police stories, the police and justice borrow the jargon and procedures of their American counterparts. Let it be known, in France, witnesses do not swear on the Bible, and high schools do not have cheerleader clubs.

The source of any story should be life. To avoid inbreeding and gain credibility, you must document yourself. Not only is it one of the riches of our profession to be able to discover foreign universes, but it also gives ideas that nourish development.

Another type of research is to become aware of what has already been done on subjects or genres close to your project. This allows you to see what works or not. That's why you're not obliged to limit yourself to watching or rewatching the great masterpieces whose subject has some resemblance to yours. Flops are also instructive.

All this research has a huge advantage: it gives ideas. I'm not talking about copying what's already been done; I'm talking about new ideas found in reaction to others' works. Moreover, seeing what's already been done forces you to be original, to stand out, to offer something personal, to say "I" and not "We."

The genre

Becoming aware of existing stories on a subject similar to yours also allows you to familiarize yourself with the conventions of your project's genre. Note that genre is not the only categorical criterion for classifying works. If, for example, your story deals with the mother-daughter relationship, this theme is present in many different genres (from Carrie to Steel Magnolias, through Autumn Sonata). If you're writing a story with elderly people, I suggest watching or rewatching Cocoon, Harold and Maude, About Schmidt, The Straight Story, Tough Guys, etc., even if "old people's films" are not yet considered a genre.

This may come one day because the question of genre obsesses American screenplay theorists and Hollywood decision-makers. I invite you to consult them because I don't have much to say about genre, except for the few paragraphs that follow. I'm probably wrong. I should be interested in genre as an author. However, as a spectator, I think I'm definitively vaccinated on the subject since 1986. At the time, I loved pirate stories (among other genres). Largely thanks to the comic book series Redbeard. When the film Pirates came out, I rushed to a cinema and was terribly disappointed. I realized that what I loved most in Redbeard was not so much the arena and its codes as the narrative genius of Jean-Michel Charlier. Boarding, wooden legs, and treasure hunts are of little interest if they don't fit into a solid story. Already, in my teenage cinephilia years, I had noticed that some films directed by Alfred Hitchcock or some films with Laurel and Hardy were less successful than others. Since then, I wonder how someone can claim to love revenge films when it can yield both The Sting and Eye for an Eye. If asked whether I enjoy westerns, I don't know what to answer. I can't say I love westerns in absolute terms. I adore some westerns (Blueberry (comic series, albums 1 to 22), Buddy
Longway (albums 1 to 16), The Human Target, The Desert Without Light, Little Big Man, Rio Bravo, High Noon) and I dispute quite a few. The reason is simple: the genre I prefer, far ahead of all others, is that of well-told stories. I don't care about their setting or category. I regret that broadcasters and magazines classify films by genre and not by the quality of the story. "Honey, what do you want to watch tonight? A thriller or a romantic comedy?" "A well-written story!" I think I'm not alone in this, and the first criterion for deciding to spend a few hours on a story is not the genre but word of mouth—which is often due to the quality of the story.

A small terminological clarification: I'm talking about genre in the general sense of type of story. Thriller, biopic, epic, disaster film, etc. In France, "genre film" sometimes refers to films belonging to a handful of highly coded genres in which Anglo-Saxons specialize and in which French cinema is underrepresented: survival, fantasy, horror, and science fiction. In the United States, a distinction is made between "film genre," which deals with film genres, and "genre film," which often refers to a B-movie belonging to a particular genre.

Theorists will tell you that a genre is both a promise and a system of codes—these codes can be of different natures: setting, props, themes, tone, characters, plot, symbols, etc. Theorists add that you have an interest in respecting both. First, it makes your task easier. Second, if you don't just reproduce the codes, it can help you avoid clichés and offer something refreshing (and thus avoid producing a "genre film"). Third, it prevents the viewer from being disoriented. It's not just script theorists and Hollywood decision-makers who are fond of genres; it seems that many viewers are too.

In short, if your story fits into a genre, it's a good idea to know its conventions. For example, in a romantic comedy, a famous American script theorist explains, the kiss is one of the obligatory passages. Often at the end. Logical, right? Except... The Apartment is one of the most beautiful romantic comedies in the repertoire, and it doesn't contain a kiss. I don't see a kiss in City Lights, Bringing Up Baby, or My Fair Lady either. Nor in most musicals (and romantic ones) starring Fred Astaire. You might retort that my examples are somewhat old and that genre codes evolve. That's true. So I'll cite the following romantic comedies. They are recent and don't contain a kiss: Salmon Fishing in the Yemen (2012), If You Are the One (2008), This Is Not a Love Story (2015), This Is Not What I Expected (2017). I conclude that you can break the codes of a genre, even the most important ones, without the world collapsing. But, as with all rules, it's better to bend them knowingly.

Some genre specialists think that all stories necessarily belong to a genre, and often to several—the most "discreet" or "neutral" genre being the psychological drama. It seems that authors have an interest in mixing genres, not just sticking to one. This is surely why we see a romantic subplot in many action or adventure films. The interest of having multiple genres is perhaps to enrich the story, to add thematic and dramatic layers. In any case, if you feel your story lacks strength, one option is to add a genre to it. And exploit it, of course. Thus, you may discover that your subject will be more powerful if you transpose it to a distant era or add a criminal investigation or include elements of black comedy. Or if you give it the appearance of a mockumentary like Zelig.

Genre, especially when it's exotic, is also sometimes considered a symbolic tool for addressing a subject. If, for example, you want to talk about a subject that concerns you personally, it can be fruitful not to address it directly, frontally, but to use a metaphor, a strong premise, or a genre. It's a way to detach from your subject. It may also help the receiver better understand the message unconsciously. Fairy tales perfectly illustrate this principle. By exploiting a medieval, fantastic, and Manichean setting, fairy tales symbolically speak to the child about their unconscious fears and desires.

Others will tell you that you have an interest in specializing. If you're good at horror films, only write horror films. Why not. It's true that the profession tends to label artists, to want to fit them into small boxes. I still wonder how Billy Wilder managed to co-write and direct grim films like The Lost Weekend and comedies like Some Like It Hot. I also think that an author is not a painter. When a painter approaches a gallery owner, they come with several paintings, and they better manifest a unique style. But a screenwriter or novelist never sends a dozen stories to a decision-maker at once. It's already a challenge to get a single project read by a decision-maker. So five! Moreover, will a decision-maker charmed by your social comedy want to ensure you only write social comedies?

Since I'm talking about social comedy, it's time to clarify that, in my opinion, comedy is not a genre but a super-genre. And above all, a treatment, one of the only two possible treatments of life's matters. Whatever the subject, there are only two ways to talk about it: serious or mocking, straightforward or offbeat. Comedy represents far too many works in the repertoire to be reduced to a genre. Slapstick, parody, social comedy, romantic comedy, musical comedy, black comedy, on the other hand, are genres.

Final thought for the road. There is a genre that seems more delicate than all others: anticipation, what Anglo-Saxons call "social science fiction." First, because with each new work, the setting must be presented. It's never the same. In a western, an epic, a pirate story, the setting is already known, already coded. Even in classic science fiction, you can reuse codes proposed by others. In anticipation, everything must be invented and presented each time. Corollary, it takes time. So, it lengthens the first act. And above all, it needs to be credible. And even indisputable. Many anticipation works fail, in my opinion, because they can't convince the viewer from the start. Hence the temptation for some authors to create mystery, a way to postpone the moment when they have to explain their setting. In my opinion, this solves nothing and makes reception even more painful. Let's be clear, I'm not saying to avoid anticipation. It's one of the most useful genres and has some lovely successes (1984 or Black Mirror, for example). I'm just saying it's a genre that requires particular care.

4. THE DRAMATIC PITCH

"Twenty-five words, max."
(Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins), The Player)
"When I'm given a subject, (...) I like to see it on a sheet of paper. (...) You don't have to write much. Just that a man meets a woman somewhere and something happens. (...) A viewer sees the film and, back home, is likely to talk about it to his wife. She wants to know how it was, so he tells her it's the story of a man who meets a woman—and what he tells his wife is what you should have written on that sheet of paper from the start."
(Alfred Hitchcock in 1939 [42])
"I fight against him, I fight against you, I fight for Mom's rights to the house."
(Eben, Desire Under the Elms)

A. PROTAGONIST-OBJECTIVE-OBSTACLES
One of the first operations to carry out when you have a sufficiently good idea of what you want to tell (see chapter 2) is to choose the most suitable protagonist, the most suitable objective, and the most suitable obstacles to correctly translate your thought.

A simple example, if you want to show that poverty leads to crime, it's better to choose a poor protagonist rather than a rich one. A bit less obvious, if you think curiosity is a bad trait, it's better to take the neighbor rather than the photographer as the protagonist (see pages 25 and 27).

On the importance of the nature of the protagonist
The choice of protagonist is not trivial. It largely determines the point of view developed by the work. Take the example of Dances with Wolves. Much ink has been spilled on the film's humanism. What perhaps hasn't been said enough is that by taking a kind soldier as the protagonist, the authors condemned the genocide of Native Americans while giving today's viewers a clear conscience. Because the film doesn't just say that Native Americans were wrongly massacred.

It also says that among the people of the massacres, there were humane and understanding people. No doubt every American viewer recognized their ancestor in John Dunbar (Kevin Costner). To this, one could add that the film paradoxically shows a certain ostracism towards the Pawnees, ostracism it claims to condemn elsewhere. Is it because there must be "villains" in a story at all costs? Even villains have reasons. Yet Dances with Wolves hardly cares about the reasons of the Pawnees. Is this truly the best way to be humanistic? By definition, humanism aims for the human person and their flourishing. For the human being to flourish, improve, and help future generations do the same, they need to understand themselves. It's the Socratic wish: "Know thyself." To understand, for example, what led them to massacre Native Americans. It's great to recognize the genocide of Native Americans, it's great to condemn it, but in my opinion, it's even greater to understand why. Because it's the only way to prevent another genocide. Yet, it's not by taking a kind soldier as the protagonist that we invite the viewer to effectively understand the problem. For Dances with Wolves to be truly, deeply humanistic, the protagonist would have needed a moral flaw, to be, for example, a "bad" soldier whose reasons and motivations the authors would have explained, reminding us that barbarism—which, among other things, leads to genocide—exists in each of us. Of course, it would have been less successful. I'm not saying that Dances with Wolves is a bad film from a craftsmanship point of view. Simply, it's not obvious that it is, as has often been said, a very humanistic film.

Angelicism
In fact, Dances with Wolves is representative of a trend that regularly runs through Western cinema, which could be called "angelicism" and consists of only telling stories of positive heroes. Is it due to a public need? To authors' modesty fearing to make their protagonists unsympathetic? To political correctness? To producers who want positive heroes to, they imagine, attract audiences? To actors who fear for their image? It's likely that an explanation also lies in the social context. In times of crisis, we need positive and all-powerful saviors. The first American superheroes were born in the 1930s, after the 1929 crisis.

Anyway, we are far today from the inglorious characters of the 1970s, those protagonists with a beautiful dark side called "anti-heroes" (see Ugly, Dirty and Bad, Aguirre, the Wrath of God, The Old Lady's Money, Harold and Maude, The Tenant, Midnight Cowboy, Midnight Express, Scent of a Woman, Série noire, Taxi Driver, Dog Day Afternoon, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, etc.). In Saturday Night Fever, which is far from being a confidential film, the protagonist Tony Manero (John Travolta) is presented as particularly sexist. In the middle of the film, he starts making love in a car with a friend (Donna Pescow). Suddenly, he stops and asks her if she's protected. She replies no. He then declares he doesn't want to go further and simply asks her to perform oral sex. Sic! Could we see such a scene in a mainstream American film today?

Billy Wilder said in 1970 [94]: "We can make superficial films about show business (...) where the star breaks a leg and the understudy triumphs. But the understudy is actually a boring character. The interesting character not treated is the star who broke a leg and sees the unknown take their place." For Billy Wilder, cinema should be more interested in the unsympathetic characters played by Jean Hagen in Singin' in the Rain or Bebe Daniels in 42nd Street. Note that today, it's Anglo-Saxon television that has taken up the torch of 1970s cinema. Gray characters thrive much more in TV series than in cinema.

In short, as you can see, the choice of protagonist is far from a trivial and innocent operation. I remind you that the protagonist may not be the main character of the work—that is, the character who embodies the subject or one of the major themes—but is the one who conveys the author's intention (see Tartuffe or The Journey of Mr. Perrichon). Molière didn't take Tartuffe as the protagonist because he doesn't seek to understand hypocrisy, but simply to condemn it. To show that we are sorcerer's apprentices, that it takes a tremendous amount of energy against the machines we ourselves created, James Cameron doesn't take the evil exterminator robot (Arnold Schwarzenegger) as the protagonist but as the antagonist in Terminator.

Everyone has their reasons
I wrote earlier that the nature of the protagonist depends on your intention. Some works adopt a very particular structure that consists of not clearly choosing a single protagonist and focusing on the actions of several characters. If you have multiple protagonists, each with a different objective, you simply end up with a choral narrative. This can work if you alternate the plots. But it can become very complicated if your different protagonists oppose each other, in other words, if they are each other's respective obstacles. This is the case in Cops and Robbers and A Separation. The (almost philosophical) interest of this type of structure is to show that everyone has their reasons and that it's unfair to take sides categorically. But the (craftsmanship) risk of this type of structure is to prevent identification and keep the viewer at a distance. The first season of a series like Spartacus: Blood and Sand magnificently manages to focus on several antagonistic characters without breaking identification. The trick is to designate a clear and distinct protagonist (Spartacus (Andy Whitfield), in this case) and then develop the actions of secondary characters, including antagonists. In Spartacus: Blood and Sand, we abundantly follow the paths of Batiatus (John Hannah) and Crixus (Manu Bennett) even though they are often opponents of Spartacus. It's no coincidence that I cite a series as an example. It's likely that the second trick to successfully handling multiple antagonistic actions is to have space. Cops and Robbers and A Separation are films. If, at the beginning of a feature film, you clearly identify a protagonist and then start focusing on the actions of opponents, not only do you make identification difficult, but you can also give the impression of not respecting the unity of action.

B. THE LOGLINE
Sometimes associated with the setting, the inciting incident, and the obstacles, the protagonist-objective pair can be formulated in a sentence called the "pitch." Among other things, the word "pitch" means "launch" in English. In baseball, the pitcher is the player positioned at the center of the field, who throws the ball to the batter. In dramaturgy, the pitcher throws an idea to a decision-maker to sell it. But, as we will see, the pitch is much more than a sales tool reserved for Hollywood transactions. It's also a formidable writing tool. And even, as we will see with the elements of the first act, a logical tool, an evidence.

Tagline and logline
We distinguish several types of pitch. The two main ones are the tagline and the logline (or one-line pitch or dramatic pitch), whose functions are different. The tagline is a slogan. It gives a good idea of the spirit of the work, its atmosphere, but reveals little about the story itself. Examples:
A. In space, no one can hear you scream.
B. Troubles?... Confusions?... Anxieties?... Meet real professionals.
C. Just when you thought it was safe to go back in the water.
D. Life is in their hands. Death is in their minds.

The tagline is essentially a sales tool intended for viewers, and if it addresses a decision-maker, the idea is to interest them in the subject, certainly not to tell them the story. It can be fun for a screenwriter to come up with a tagline for their project (for example, on the cover page of their script), but it remains accessory. Moreover, most taglines are conceived once the film is made, to be put on the poster.

The logline or one-line pitch—"one-line" meaning both a sentence and a guiding line—is a summary of the story in one line. The principle can be applied to theater as well as cinema. Examples:
E. A young prince battles his own doubts to avenge his father.
F. A military man full of panache and poetry but self-conscious about a physical flaw tries to woo a precious woman through a handsome intermediary.
G. A tramp does everything to help a young blind florist who mistakes him for a millionaire.
H. A scientist confronts the intolerance and obscurantism of his time to assert his revolutionary theories.
I. An ordinary composer seeks to destroy the musical genius who fascinates him.
J. To catch a cruelly inventive serial killer, an FBI trainee takes the risk of consulting a manipulative and even more dangerous psychopath.

The one-line pitch resembles the more or less successful film summaries found in TV magazines. Logically, a well-conceived dramatic pitch at the start doesn't change during writing. Of course, a dramatic pitch is extremely reductive. The examples given above do not account for all the richness of the corresponding works. But that's not their goal. The interest is to define the base of the story, the main idea of the narrative, the point on which the entire pyramid must rest.

It's an obvious sales tool. You go to a decision-maker and summarize your subject in a few words: "It's the story of a self-centered weather presenter trying to escape the endless repetition of a grim day in his life (K)." Point. Immediately, the decision-maker asks for more. How does this day repeat? What does the presenter do to escape it? Does he succeed? Is it a thriller or a comedy? What do you want to say or show with this story? Etc. The discussion can then last an hour, you can tell as many details as you want, the decision-maker has a base to which all the narrative information can be attached. They will have a clear idea of the subject as well as the story.

In the United States, pitching is the subject of entire chapters in books dedicated to screenwriting. They explain how to prepare and conduct a pitching session. Some common-sense rules emerge. The most well-known is to know the person you are pitching to. You don't pitch a sitcom project to a producer who makes melodramatic unitary films.

The pitch as a writing and evaluation tool
But, again, the one-line pitch is not just a sales tool. It's also a valuable writing tool. Because, by constituting a guiding line for the story, even reductive, it allows the author not to stray, to respect the unity of action, and to clarify their ideas and intentions. It also forces one to be concise, a quality that many authors lack.

That's why, in addition to being a sales tool and a writing tool, the dramatic pitch has a third characteristic: it is a competence revealer. When I hear a pitch that works, I don't have the certainty that its author will be able to develop the story, but I at least feel that they know where they are going, that they know what they are telling. I have the (very pleasant) impression that there will be a pilot in the plane. When I encounter a shaky pitch, I tell myself that the author is already struggling to organize their ideas, and I remember Boileau's words [10]: "What is well conceived is clearly stated, and the words to say it come easily." Organizing one's ideas, finding the words to say it, is one of the major activities of any author.

You now understand why the pitch is so important. In my opinion, it is an essential step. And a compass for the author, until the end.
C. DESIGNING YOUR DRAMATIC PITCH

A standard dramatic pitch necessarily includes the protagonist, the essence of their characterization, and their goal. Example: "A famous but cowardly singer struggles to hide his bisexuality."

You'll notice the use of a verb expressing a difficult-to-achieve goal. "Struggles...", "Goes all out to...", "Makes every effort...", "Endeavors to...", "Does his utmost to...". In a pitch, one doesn't merely charm; one moves heaven and earth to charm. One doesn't find; one searches. My preferred formula is "Fights to...". This is an important rule. A good pitch is enticing. Therefore, a good pitch highlights a challenging action. It should exude both suspense (in the broad sense) and the protagonist's fierce determination.

In a pitch, you might also find:
- An inciting incident. Example: "Denounced on France Culture by a jealous composer, a famous but cowardly singer fights to hide his bisexuality";
- An idea of the obstacles. Example: "A famous but cowardly singer fights to hide his bisexuality from his catechist wife";
- An arena, meaning a significant setting, which we'll return to. Example: "In 1950s Japan, a famous but cowardly singer fights to hide his bisexuality";
- A major dramatic irony. In my example, it is implied by the verb "hide". Expressions like "who thinks he is", "without knowing that", or "unbeknownst to" immediately evoke dramatic irony.

To summarize, the standard formula for a dramatic pitch is: "In such an arena, following such an inciting incident, such a character fights against such obstacles to achieve such a goal." Let's revisit the pitch example above: "To catch a cruelly inventive serial killer, an FBI trainee takes the risk of consulting a manipulative and even more dangerous psychopath." We are not far from the ideal formula. The inciting incident is mentioned—a serial killer is on the loose—the protagonist has three characteristics (female, cop, rookie), her goal is clear (catch the serial killer), her greatest sub-goal is indicated (consult a psychopath), and we have a good idea of the danger and obstacles—the psychopath is manipulative and dangerous, not to mention the serial killer who also seems vicious.

A logical trio
There is always a logical link between the protagonist, the inciting incident, and their goal, especially if the future protagonist is part of the inciting incident. Imagine the principal of your son's school calls you in and tells you your son is showing worrying signs of academic delay. What do you do? Will you immediately try to seduce your neighbor or build a house? No, you will adopt a goal related to the inciting incident and your personality.

If you put Jean-Claude Dusse (Michel Blanc in Les Bronzés and Les Bronzés font du ski) in Cyrano de Bergerac's situation, Edmond Rostand's play lasts ten minutes. Jean-Claude will immediately imagine he has an opening with Roxane, try to make a move, and get rejected. Curtain. If an uncertain young man learns that his father was killed by his uncle, it can lead to a three-hour play (Hamlet, for example). But if it's Rodrigue (Le Cid) who experiences the same inciting incident, the uncle gets skewered at the first opportunity, and the story also lasts about ten minutes.

It's because there is a logical link between the protagonist, the inciting incident, and the goal that the inciting incident is such a valuable tool. It helps the audience understand the future protagonist's motivations. In short, unless it makes sense for your story, don't deprive yourself of the inciting incident.

The formulation of a pitch
Even if it's a good sign, it's not absolutely imperative that the pitch fits into a single sentence. It must give a single direction, a single line of writing, but it doesn't mean you should perform grammatical acrobatics to fit everything into one sentence. Example: "In the year 2530, law enforcement and justice are handled by robots. Following a divorce, the corrupt leader of an ecological party fights for custody of her children." This makes two sentences and thirty-two words. I think Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins), the protagonist producer of The Player, wouldn't hold it against me.

Moreover, a pitch should not contain:
- Names. It doesn't matter if the popular singer is named Jiro or Akira. A pitch should only contain proper names if your story involves a historical figure;
- The arena, if it is not significant. Generally, a contemporary Western city is not interesting enough to feature in a dramatic pitch;
- Elements that are too vague. "The corrupt leader of an ecological party" is a more meaningful phrase than "A 40-year-old woman";
- Too many details. Especially when the pitch is the very beginning of a conversation (with a friend, a decision-maker, etc.). It's better to launch a lean pitch and add details later based on questions. In short, you must be precise and specific but not drown yourself and us in details;
- The dramatic response or the ending. We've already discussed this above. The pitch must create uncertainty, thus suspense. To generate a mix of hope and fear in the listener, the pitch must not reveal whether the protagonist succeeds or not.

Pitch and central conflict
A good dramatic pitch gives a clear idea of what the central conflict of the story will be. Conversely, if you know your central conflict, you shouldn't have difficulty finding the pitch.

But how do you design your pitch when you already have plenty of leads and twenty pages of notes? The trash test, mentioned in chapter 2, proves invaluable. You have to make choices, reduce the subject to its essence, and find the central conflict. The central conflict is both the strongest and most present conflict in the work, and the one that gives an idea of the main action. Be careful, it must be a dynamic conflict (not static) and a conflict sufficiently balanced (neither too strong nor too weak). What a character cannot do at all cannot constitute a central conflict. When you have found your central conflict, you have logically found your protagonist and their goal.

In Groundhog Day, for example, the central conflict is not that Phil Connors (Bill Murray) relives the same dismal day over and over. This cursed repetition is a conflict, certainly, but it's a static conflict. It is part of the inciting incident and, once it has launched the action, we consider it a given. The central (and dynamic) conflict of Groundhog Day is Phil's difficulty in escaping this curse.

In case of choral work
If you are writing a choral work with several protagonists, you need a dramatic pitch for each plot. Ideally, the plots should be linked to each other. Either thematically or dramatically. In the latter case, one of the plots constitutes, directly or indirectly, obstacles for another plot. Of course, you can also propose both thematic and dramatic links.

A little advice on choral work: make sure it's not avoidance and/or filler, that it makes sense in your project. And also, make sure all the plots are interesting. Remember The Taste of Others. The main plot, with this business owner (Jean-Pierre Bacri) who falls in love and becomes interested in culture, is delightful. But everything revolving around Bruno (Alain Chabat), Franck (Gérard Lanvin), and Manie (Agnès Jaoui) is less exciting. This is partly because this subplot is not constructed, its protagonist is not clearly identified, and it lacks conflict. It's no coincidence that anyone summarizing the film only talks about the main plot. Yet the subplot takes up space. Since the film lasts an hour and fifty minutes, the main plot is not as developed and accomplished as it could have been. At the limit, the authors should have treated the same subject with the second plot, but seen from another angle. They do so with a third, lighter plot, that of Mrs. Castella (Christiane Millet) decorating her sister-in-law's (Brigitte Catillon) apartment.

In contrast, this is fully achieved by the authors of Portrait craché d'une famille modèle. There are four plots, all dealing with parenthood in various forms. Here are the pitches: A - A stressed salesman does his utmost to support his 9-year-old son lacking self-confidence; B - A divorced and sexually frustrated mother struggles to control her two teenage children; C - A teacher confronts her demanding husband about the education of their 4-year-old genius daughter; D - The father of the three, an insensitive patriarch, fights to save his fourth child, a 25-year-old prodigal loser.

Of course, if you have a single plot with several co-protagonists, just include the co-protagonists in the sentence. Example: "Following a misunderstanding, two clumsy house painters, a confident big guy and a whiny skinny guy, are mistaken for police officers. They strive to enforce the law." But in this case, you don't have a choral work. You just have several protagonists with the same goal.

In case of a serialized series
In the case of series (TV or comics) with non-closed episodes, the principle is the same, depending on the format of the series. Some series offer a major inciting incident and a protagonist per season or album cycle (Blueberry, Breaking Bad, 24, Prison Break). The general pitch is obvious. "In 1867, in the American West, a hot-headed cavalry lieutenant fights to pacify the Native American territory where a railroad is being built" (cf. the four albums of the Iron Horse cycle). If there are subplots, each has its pitch. Some series offer several major plots that run alternately and sometimes intersect. Each has its inciting incident and protagonist (A French Village, Downton Abbey, Desperate Housewives). This results in several pitches, as many as there are plots, exactly like in the example of Portrait craché d'une famille modèle above.

The first season of The Bureau offers an interesting alternative to these two major serial principles. Because it contains a main protagonist (Malotru (Mathieu Kassovitz)) and three inciting incidents all concerning the same character. This results in three pitches. Or, if preferred, a triple pitch: "A brilliant DGSE member must train a novice, manage his love for a former target without it being known, and find an agent missing in Algeria under worrying conditions." Of course, there is a link between the three plots: they are all related to Malotru's espionage activity. The first season of The Bureau would work much less well if Éric Rochant had given Malotru the triple goal of finding the missing agent, learning piano, and adopting a child. Just as finding a missing agent in Algeria, a missing agent in Hungary, and a missing agent in Mexico would not have been a very good idea either. It is also noted that the protagonist is surrounded by co-protagonists. Thus, Malotru starts training the novice (Sara Giraudeau) before quickly passing the baton to a colleague (Florence Loiret Caille).

The strong postulate
The Americans call it a "high concept". It's a strong premise whose presentation makes one salivate. Not all pitches contain the seeds of exciting action. When you hear: "In 1879, in Norway, an infantilized woman does everything to prevent her condescending husband from knowing her secret (A Doll's House)", you have to trust the author to envision an exciting story. But there are cases where the pitch immediately announces a beautiful central conflict, a paradoxical situation, or original premises.

If you want to find a strong premise, you can think of discrepancy, inversion, irony, spectacle, and... the prospect of conflict. Examples:
N. A professional robber determined to go straight is taken hostage by an amateur robber. He fights to prove his innocence.
O. A policeman does everything to neutralize the bomb on a bus that will explode if the bus goes below 50 mph.
P. During Prohibition, two musicians disguise themselves as women to escape mobsters. They strive to manage the situation.
Q. Mistaken for a non-existent spy, a carefree advertiser tries to save his skin.
R. A 49-year-old man transported into the body of the teenager he was at 14 does everything to prevent his father from leaving his family.

That said, I'm not sure that authors of strong premises immediately think of a properly formulated dramatic pitch. The key to a strong premise often holds in two words: "What if...?" What if a professional robber was taken hostage by an amateur robber? (N). What if a virtual spy incarnated in a guy who asked for nothing? (Q). What if Shakespeare was a victim of writer's block? (Shakespeare in Love). What if scientists managed to bring dinosaurs back to life? (Jurassic Park). What if a teenager went back in time and met his future parents at the same age as him? (Back to the Future). What if an unemployed actor disguised himself as a woman to find work? (Tootsie). What if the consciousness of a 40-year-old man, just deceased, entered the body of a 17-year-old teenager (A Radiant Sky)? The "What if...?" approach is seductive, but you can't stop there. You must then present the subject in the form of an effective dramatic pitch.

Danny Rubin has often explained how the idea for Groundhog Day came to him. He wondered: "What if an individual was immortal, if he could live for a very long time, how would he change?" Rubin was excited by this "What if...?" but immediately encountered a problem: how to show someone living for a very long time without making a historical or science fiction film spanning several centuries? Rubin then remembered an idea he had a few years earlier, about a guy whose day repeats endlessly, which can lead to a form of eternity. Rubin thus moved from a strong premise to a pitch.

Be careful, developing a strong premise is as difficult, if not more, than writing an apparently banal subject. For two reasons. First, the strong premise creates an expectation in the audience, making them more demanding. Second, if the strong premise immediately provides you with a handful of powerful, amusing scenes, you must manage to insert these scenes into a coherent and solid whole. Don't just repeat the original conflict throughout the second act, as is sometimes seen (cf. Esmera or The Visitors).

Neither the result nor the intention nor the atmosphere
A pitch must summarize the action, not the meaning of the story, nor the author's intention, nor, as we've seen, the final result. "Following the death of his guinea pig, a child learns the meaning of life" or "It's the story of a hairdresser who embarks on a journey of self-discovery" are not good dramatic pitches because they do not account for the concrete dynamics of the work. They describe more the result (also very vague) than the way the protagonist achieves it.

The two examples above are close to what could be called the "trajectory pitch", echoing the trajectory goal we discussed in chapter 1. That is, the sentence that summarizes the internal trajectory of the protagonist or another character. This subject is the focus of the next chapter.

Some examples of pitches that, in my opinion, don't work. In any case, that don't entice me. I'll let you guess why for each of them.
- To earn a living, two losers, Jean-René and Kevin, embark on an adventure as dangerous as it is hilarious.
- It's the story of an ambitious and manipulative woman who wants to become famous and ends up collapsing, swept away by her megalomania.
- Amnesia, gastronomy, and state secrets.
- A young group of friends gets lost in a hostile land. But they find the idea that will allow them to get out.
- There are secrets better left unknown. What is the price to pay for ethics? And for freedom?
- Boniface, 20, has always lived in his housing project, in the suburbs, with the same friends. But it's starting to weigh on him. He dreams of other horizons.
- The lives of a painter, an executive, and a drug dealer intertwine in a story of violence and redemption.
- Angélique is devastated by her brother's death. Can hope take the form of a charming exorcist?
- Film title tells the story of a rebirth. When you're at the bottom of the pool, you can only rise.
- Ouagadougou, 1960. Little Ousmane dreams of leaving his village to see the world. The arrival of a white teacher will shake up his daily life.
- Around a child with leukemia, a tragedy unfolds, involving two women with opposing values.

D. PITCH AND FIRST ACT
We sometimes hear about the "dictate of the pitch". As if condensing a story wasn't a legitimate aspiration. As if a good story could do without a pitch. Or as if anything with an Anglo-Saxon name was suspect. I explained in La dramaturgie that cliffhangers, milking, and script doctoring were invented by ancient and classical playwrights, not Hollywood.

And then, recently, I made a discovery. I considered the first act of very diverse works: L'argent de la vieille, The Sting, Breaking Bad, Les Compères, How to Train Your Dragon, The School for Wives, Jean de Florette, Lysistrata, A Doll's House, Miracle in Alabama, Mustang, Where Is My Friend's House?, The Story of Qiu Ju, A Radiant Sky, Groundhog Day, The Lives of Others. I even summarized them on an editing table. And I realized that all these first acts were nothing more than the presentation of the elements of their respective pitch. At the end of a respectable first act, that is, at the moment of the declaration of the goal, the audience knows what the action will be and has all the components of the pitch in mind.

What do we see, for example, in the first act of The Story of Qiu Ju? That we are in a poor Chinese countryside, that Qiu Ju (Gong Li) is a determined and justice-loving woman, that she seeks reparation for an assault (in the lower abdomen) her husband (Liu Peiqi) was a victim of, that local justice is bureaucratic, that the aggressor (Lei Kesheng) refuses to apologize and even humiliates Qiu Ju. And what is the pitch of The Story of Qiu Ju? "In the Chinese countryside of 1990, a proud, stubborn, and legalistic peasant woman fights to obtain an apology from the proud village chief who struck her husband in the lower abdomen."

Look at the first act of The School for Wives. You find all the elements of its pitch: "In the 17th century, a sexist and all-powerful old man, haunted by the fear of being deceived, fights to thwart a budding romance between his ward, raised in ignorance, and a young man who takes the old man for a confidant." Look at the first act of Miracle in Alabama. And compare it with the pitch: "A young educator, a former blind person and just graduated, fights to teach a deaf-mute-blind teenager to communicate." A Radiant Sky: "Following a traffic accident, the consciousness of a forty-year-old finds itself in the body of a teenager. He fights to say sorry and goodbye to his family before his consciousness disappears." Mustang: "In Turkey, an 11-year-old rebellious girl and her four sisters resist the growing obscurantism and confinement of their family."

Be careful, I'm not saying that the pitch is a summary of the first act. By definition, the pitch gives an overview of the action, therefore of the second act. But since the first act's function is to launch the action, we can say that at the end of the first act, the audience has a good idea of the pitch. They have grasped that, following the inciting incident, such a character will fight to achieve such a goal against such obstacles. If you change "fights" to "will fight" or "decides to fight" in a pitch, you get a summary of the first act.

One will agree that the works cited above are not formatted products, basely commercial works. Yet you can test with all the first acts of thousands of stories of all kinds and origins, you will see that they present more or less successfully the elements of the pitch: the arena, the characterization of the future protagonist and main characters, the inciting incident, the declaration of the goal, and a general idea of the obstacles to come. In other words, the pitch is not a dictate but a narrative obviousness.

And it's even a logical obviousness. I remind you that the word "pitch", borrowed from baseball, means "launch". So what is a first act? Precisely the launch of a story.

To convince yourself, take the pitches listed above and see if they give you enough to fill a first act. See if they give you a good idea of what the action will be. Isn't such a pitch too vague? Another boastful? Yet another incomplete? Isn't there a declaration of the goal missing here, an inciting incident there? In short, those who talk about the dictate of the pitch could just as well talk to us about the dictate of a well-designed first act or even the dictate of a good story. Dictates that billions of humans have been accommodating very well for millennia.
E. PLOT-DRIVEN AND CHARACTER-DRIVEN NARRATIVES

A plot-driven narrative emphasizes action and conscious objectives. A character-driven narrative focuses more on the portrait or psychological trajectory of a character.

Of course, most narratives blend plot and characterization. We are dealing with a spectrum. At one end, we have Duel, North by Northwest, Terminator, An Italian Straw Hat, 24, where characterization is sometimes almost nonexistent. At the other end, we have Amadeus, The Cherry Orchard, Don Juan, The Easy Life, The Misanthrope, About Schmidt, A Streetcar Named Desire, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, where the structure is particularly loose. But many narratives successfully mix plot and characterization. I think of Cyrano de Bergerac, The School for Wives, The Apartment, Hamlet, A Doll's House, Martha Jane Cannary, Oedipus Rex, Othello, A Distant Neighborhood, Back to the Future, The Sopranos, Groundhog Day, It's a Wonderful Life (1946).

As an author, you surely have your preferences. Without realizing it, your tastes will lead you toward one type of narrative over another. It's interesting to become aware of your preferences. Because where you place the cursor depends not only on your tastes but also on your intention.

Characterization in Plot-Driven Narratives

If you choose a plot-driven narrative, you will focus on the twists and turns. However, I encourage you to characterize your characters. What's the point, you might ask? I believe that good characterizations make a narrative more accurate, richer, and more interesting. Don't you find Haddock, Calculus, Thomson and Thompson, and Castafiore more credible and endearing than Tintin? Tintin is so smooth that he becomes non-human. Giving your characters rough edges is both realistic and more enjoyable for the audience.

Action or Characterization First?

Dear reader, if you know Groundhog Day, I propose a little game. Imagine you are presenting the film to a friend who has never heard of it. You want to pitch the subject. What do you say, exactly, in one or two sentences maximum? Note the answer somewhere. Then answer the following question.

Did you present the film with a sentence like: 1 - "It's the story of a self-centered weatherman who fights to escape the endless repetition of a grim day in his life"? Or like this: 2 - "It's the story of a self-centered weatherman who learns to become human and authentic"? Or rather like this: 3 - "It's the story of a self-centered weatherman who fights to escape the endless repetition of a grim day in his life and learns to become human and authentic"? The first summary is the dramatic pitch. The second is what I called earlier the "trajectory pitch" (see chapter 5). The film is the sum of both. Even if some viewers mainly remember Phil Connors' (Bill Murray) journey, Groundhog Day is not just a character-driven narrative. It's also a plot. In short, the best summary, in my opinion, is number 3.

N.B. In some cases, it's good to indicate the genre if the pitch elements don't make it clear. Here, for example, one could say: "It's a romantic comedy. The story of a self-centered weatherman who fights to escape the endless repetition of a grim day in his life and learns to become human and authentic." If you want to preserve suspense about the internal trajectory, you can indicate it with uncertainty. "It's the story of a self-centered weatherman who fights to escape the endless repetition of a grim day in his life. Will he understand that the solution is to become human and authentic?"

By definition, a plot is a causal succession of events. Many believe that the most important thing in a narrative is not the plot but what it provokes in (at least) one of the characters, how it transforms them. Some even go so far as to think that it's the characters who make the plot and not the other way around. I think both (plot and character) are interconnected, that one doesn't go without the other. And vice versa. As mentioned above, if you put Jean-Claude Dusse in Cyrano's situation, you don't get the same story. In this case, it's the way a different character (Dusse instead of Cyrano) responds to the same situation that changes the narrative. But the reverse also works. Keep the same character, Cyrano, and this time change the situation: instead of hearing Roxane say she's in love with Christian, Cyrano learns that Le Bret has been cowardly assassinated. Again, the resulting story is no longer the same. Modify a character or an event, and you change the narrative. I insist: plot and character are closely intertwined, and both are desirable.

The Basic Structure in Character-Driven Narratives

If you choose to write a character-driven narrative, you will focus on characterization, possibly on a character's evolution, but this should not exempt you from having a dramatic pitch. I don't believe for a second in 100% "character-driven" narratives. I think there always needs to be a plot, even if it's a pretext. I doubt Sophocles' motivation for writing Oedipus Rex was to show how Oedipus eliminates the plague ravaging his city. He was probably more interested in Oedipus's journey, wanting to show how Oedipus learns the truth about himself. In fact, the major stake of the play is Oedipus's identity, not the survival of the Thebans. Nevertheless, Sophocles needed a guiding thread, a dramatic question, a pretext plot: eradicating the plague in Thebes. And it's by fighting to achieve this goal that Oedipus discovers who he is. The same principle applies in Groundhog Day (see above). It's by trying to escape the curse that Phil transforms.

Successful character-driven narratives have a classic structure, at least an inciting incident and a climax. (N.B. Warning, I reveal the endings of the following works.)

In the play Amadeus, the inciting incident is Salieri's discovery of Mozart, and the climax is Mozart's madness. Salieri's dramatic objective is to escape the jealousy consuming him by destroying the "Creature." In Don Juan, the inciting incident is Done Elvire's demand for explanations—she even curses him regarding his tragic flaw ("Know that your crime will not go unpunished and that the same Heaven you mock will avenge your perfidy")—Don Juan's dramatic objective is to live his libertine life as he sees fit, and the climax is Don Juan's death. In The Easy Life, the inciting incident is the meeting between Bruno (Vittorio Gassman) and Roberto (Jean-Louis Trintignant), Roberto's dramatic objective is to get home, and the climax is the car accident. In The Misanthrope, there is no inciting incident, but Alceste has a general objective: to get Célimène to stop flirting with everyone and take a clear stand. The climax is when Célimène refuses to follow Alceste into his "desert" (V/4). In About Schmidt, the inciting incident is Mr. Schmidt's (Jack Nicholson) retirement, and the climax is his speech at his daughter's (Hope Davis) wedding. Schmidt's dramatic objective is to make himself useful. It may not be conscious, but it's clear. In The Cherry Orchard, the inciting incident is when we learn that the family property will be auctioned in three months, Lioubov's dramatic objective is to find a solution to the property's problem, and the climax is when Lopakhine announces he has bought the estate. In A Streetcar Named Desire, the inciting incident is Blanche's arrival at Stella's. Blanche's dramatic objective is to catch her breath. The climax is the rape. In One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, the inciting incident is not shown; it's the scene that decides McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) to pretend he's insane. But it's narrated in the interview with the director (Dean R. Brooks), and we see its consequences (McMurphy's arrival in this new universe). McMurphy's dramatic objective is to be seen favorably by the authorities to avoid prison. The climax is McMurphy's attempted murder of Nurse Ratched (Louise Fletcher).

Note that, in some cases, the protagonist may be someone other than the character you are portraying, who is often the main character of the work. This is the case in Amadeus and The Easy Life above, as well as in Being There, My Uncle, The Perfume of the Woman in Black, and Tartuffe. In these works, the protagonist's action gives the author the opportunity to characterize an important character on the sidelines of the protagonist.

In all scenarios, if you choose to create a portrait and even if plot-driven narratives don't motivate you, you must design a sufficiently solid framework for your characters. Otherwise, you risk losing the audience and missing out on your remarkable portrait. We will return in chapter 8 to the importance of having what Gustave Flaubert [30] called a thread.

F. TEST YOUR PITCH CONSTANTLY

Once you have your pitch, ask yourself three questions. 1. Is it well-formulated? 2. Does it excite me, make me want to spend a year on it? 3. Will it allow me to convey my message, does it correspond to what I want to say and show? If you answer yes to all three questions, you can move on.

Of course, the pitch is a necessary but not sufficient condition. You must also exploit it, meaning you must fulfill its promises. Hence obstacles, sub-objectives, trajectory conflicts, dramatic knots, and all that jazz. In other words, don't write a pitch to please me and then do whatever you want. Throughout the development of your narrative, I invite you to regularly check that you respect your dramatic pitch and that you are digging into what constitutes one of your main writing tools. If not, if you feel you're straying, I invite you to reformulate the pitch and examine its coherence as well as your interest in this new formulation. It must correspond to both what you want to write and what you are telling.

5. THE INTERNAL TRAJECTORY

"You make me want to be a better man."
(Melvin [Jack Nicholson], As Good as It Gets)

"Having listened to you for these thousand and one nights, I leave with a profoundly changed soul."
(Shahryar, One Thousand and One Nights)

"With Qiu Ju, a Chinese woman, I wanted to say that every Chinese person must do the same thing: fight to get their way and discover themselves in the process they have engaged in to achieve their goal."
(Zhang Yimou [961])

"It's all well and good to have fun all the time, but I would like you to grow up a bit."
(Kazué, A Distant Neighborhood)

"Rejecting a loyal friend is actually depriving oneself of a part of one's own life. (...) It takes time to learn this for sure."
(Creon, Oedipus Rex)

The vast majority of narratives are not loops where one returns to the starting point or parentheses without consequences. They lead one or more characters from one point to another, most often through causal relationships. We go from A to Z via B, C, etc. All well-designed narratives thus depict an evolution. And often, several evolutions of different natures. We go from A1 to Z1, from A2 to P2, from O3 to T3, etc. These are journeys, paths, trajectories in the broad sense. But when we talk about trajectory in the art of storytelling, we refer more specifically to an internal and personal journey, a psychological or moral change experienced by one or more characters. Most often, this journey is for the better. However, sometimes the transformation goes in the wrong direction.

A. THREE EMOTIONAL QUESTIONS

By definition, the protagonist has a general dramatic objective, motivations, and several sub-objectives. They are not alone. All worthy characters have one or more objectives. They want something. In parallel and in addition to these desires, some characters are sometimes presented with a need, often an unconscious need. It is sometimes called the "dramatic need." I will call it here the "trajectory objective." The Anglo-Saxons sometimes speak of "want" and "need" to designate these two objectives. Or of external story and internal story. The names change, but the idea is the same.

A Doll's House and Rain Man offer two beautiful examples of this pair of objectives. In Henrik Ibsen's play, Nora's general objective is to prevent her husband from discovering a compromising secret. Moreover, we feel that she would benefit from not letting herself be infantilized by her husband. We therefore attribute this trajectory objective to her. In the film written by Barry Morrow and Ronald Bass, Charlie (Tom Cruise) has the general objective of getting a share of the inheritance. We feel that he also needs to grow emotionally, to be less venal and more warm.

The trajectory objective is the second type of unconscious objective I mentioned in chapter 1 (pages 16-17). It corresponds to a universal need, that of gaining humanity, and thus can constitute an additional identification factor. As soon as the trajectory objective is perceived by the audience, it raises a question in their mind, which I call the "trajectory question": "Will the character achieve their trajectory objective and if so, how?" Or if you prefer: "Will the character see their need resolved and if so, how?" In short, we wonder if the character will grow.

You will notice that if the need is unconscious and the audience perceives it unbeknownst to the character, we automatically have a case of dramatic irony. And thus, an ironic question, whose general formulation "Will the victim discover, when and how, what they don't know?" becomes: "Will the character discover, when and how, that they had a lack, a personal problem to solve?" In fact, fully realized internal trajectories often come with an awareness. But not always. We will come back to this.

In any narrative, suspense, the audience's emotional anticipation, can therefore be created by three questions: dramatic, ironic, and trajectory. Namely:

- Will the protagonist succeed?
- Will the character who is unaware learn what we know?
- Will the character who needs to grow change?

Of course, it is important that there is a link between the protagonist's desire and one of the characters' needs. This is one of the conditions for the narrative to have coherence, an organic dimension. It makes no sense for a character to undertake a difficult action on their own while, elsewhere, a character transforms. In general, the link is as follows: in seeking to achieve their dramatic objective, the protagonist encounters obstacles and generates conflicts that lead one of the characters (often the protagonist themselves but not always, see below) to experience a personality change. I say "in general" because, sometimes, as we will see, the link is reversed. Because a character changes, an action is initiated. But in both cases, there is a link between the dramatic objective and the trajectory objective.

This chapter is intended to help you construct one or more internal trajectories. (N.B. Warning, all the examples cited below reveal important moments of the corresponding works, often the endings. Skip the works you don't know if you don't want their discovery to be spoiled.)

But before delving into the details of creating an internal trajectory, I have several crucial preliminary remarks to make.

B. BEWARE OF DOGMAS

Personality Change, Not Status Change

Preliminary Remark No. 1. I believe that a character's trajectory is more powerful and meaningful if it is moral or psychological, rather than social or biological. Some observers want characters to change so much (preferably for the better) that anything is good to spot a change, sometimes at the expense of the work (see the analysis of Tootsie below). Even when a protagonist overcomes their internal flaw at the moment of achieving their objective, they cry out for change. Except that if the protagonist still possesses their internal flaw, they haven't changed, at least regarding that flaw. They may have just managed to cope with it. Success is not a personality change. A revelation is not a personality change. An evolution is not a personality change. A blossoming is not a personality change. An individual who finds a job or starts feeling love can keep the same character. One can be stupid poor, become rich, and remain stupid. Even the fact that a character goes from life to death may not be felt as such a big change by the audience. After all, people die a lot in drama, as in life. Dying will appear as a more significant change if the deceased learned a lesson just before dying. Like Lear and Othello but unlike Macbeth.

Another change that doesn't appear as a valid change is that of characters who are forced to evolve because circumstances impose it on them. (N.B. Warning, major spoiler.) In One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) goes from rebel to submissive, and even 100% submissive. But he has no choice. He is forcibly lobotomized. In reality, McMurphy is rebellious to the end, until neutralization, and he learns no lesson. Nor does he lose one. Because a character can change for the worse, shrink instead of grow. But, in any case, they must do it of their own free will, remain responsible for what they become.

In fact, the most interesting changes are those that depict an appearance of free will, where the character who changes clearly has two paths before them and chooses (consciously or not) the one of transformation. We will come back to this.

Another scenario not to be confused with a change: that of characters whose author suddenly reveals an additional personality trait (see the example of Mr. Languedoc in La Cage aux Folles, page 215). This enriches them, gives them depth, and that's all the better, but it doesn't mean they change. An additional trait is not a modified trait. In life, it happens that a charming and attentive man becomes a monster of jealousy and abuse once he has seduced the woman he desired. This is not a personality change. It's the revelation of a hidden facet.

Why do I insist so much on these different types of evolution? Because they are not of the same value and do not require the same work. Transforming a character from cowardly to courageous or from selfish to altruistic requires much more attention than making them go from life to death, from poor to rich, or from alone to accompanied. This work of justifying the internal trajectory is delicate, and it's the whole purpose of this chapter.

Dramatic Protagonist and Trajectory Protagonist

Preliminary Remark No. 2. Despite the heavy insistence of some screenplay theorists, the character who evolves may not be the protagonist. In this case, we can then consider that there are two protagonists: one for the dramatic question and one for the trajectory question.

Armand is the dramatic protagonist of The Journey of Mr. Perrichon (dramatic objective (dram. obj.): to woo Perrichon's daughter) and Perrichon is the trajectory protagonist (trajectory objective (traj. obj.): to learn to express gratitude). Anne is the dramatic protagonist of The Miracle Worker (dram. obj.: to teach Helen to communicate) and Helen is the trajectory protagonist (traj. obj.: to be less wild). Billy (Jamie Bell) is the dramatic protagonist of Billy Elliot (dram. obj.: to become a professional dancer) and his father (Gary Lewis) is the trajectory protagonist (traj. obj.: to be more tolerant). Harold is the dramatic protagonist of How to Train Your Dragon (dram. obj.: to be accepted as he is) and his entire people are the trajectory protagonist (traj. obj.: to be less primitive). See also, below, the examples of Asterix and the Normans, Cyrano de Bergerac, One Thousand and One Nights, Toy Story, The Lives of Others, and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. In Ratatouille, it's not even an important character in the story who transforms; it's a secondary character: the critic Anton Ego.

It's not the co-protagonists who change in Romeo and Juliet. It's Capulet and Montague when they put an end to their ancestral hatred (V/3). In some of Molière's plays (The Miser, The Imaginary Invalid, The Tricks of Scapin), the young people and their servants are the dramatic co-protagonists when the potential trajectory protagonists are the old men. I write "potential" because Harpagon, Argan, Argante, and Géronte hardly evolve. They are more the subjects of the portraits painted by Molière. Tartuffe is the most complete play in this regard. Dorine, Mariane, and a good part of the family constitute the dramatic protagonist (objective: to prevent Tartuffe from harming). Orgon is the trajectory protagonist (objective: to be less fanatical). He is the one who evolves. And Tartuffe is the subject of the portrait (and the main character).

In the category "The character who changes is neither the protagonist nor the main character," we must also mention all those narratives where the main character is constant but serves as inspiration for others: Being There, Mr. Deeds Goes to Town, Babette's Feast, Forrest Gump, Mary Poppins, etc. They are sometimes called "catalytic characters."

This tendency to confuse dramatic protagonist and trajectory protagonist leads some theorists to abusively attribute the status of dramatic protagonist to the character who changes. In The Godfather, for example, Michael (Al Pacino) is clearly the trajectory protagonist.
Michael is clearly the trajectory protagonist. But it's much less evident that he is the dramatic protagonist. When I watch The Godfather, I perceive the Corleone family as the protagonist. More specifically Vico (Marlon Brando), Sonny (James Caan), and Michael. Moreover, the latter takes action very late in the film, well after the second act has begun.

Changing from the start of the action

Preliminary Remark No. 3. It is tempting to think that it is the journey undertaken by your protagonist that will make them grow. Therefore, the external trajectory should generate the internal trajectory. If this is the case, logically, the change should occur at the end of the journey. However, there are a significant number of works where the change happens at the beginning of the second act. Often, it is this transformation that pushes the protagonist to take action.

The Flowers of War provides a striking example. John Miller (Christian Bale), an embalmer by trade, finds himself in a church in Nanking during the massacre of the city in 1937. Schoolgirls ask him to help them escape, but John doesn't care. He is only interested in alcohol, money, and paid sex. When Japanese soldiers burst into the church and start savagely attacking the schoolgirls, John realizes he has more important things to do than hide. He pretends to be the priest of the place and embarks on the rescue. He is no longer the selfish jerk from the beginning.

The Nightmare Before Christmas offers another example. At the start, Jack, the grand orchestrator of Halloween, feels jaded and empty. Suddenly, he discovers Christmas Town. It's such an epiphany for him that he immediately goes from depressed to joyful and decides to take care of Christmas. Of course, his conception of the holiday doesn't fit Christmas. He will eventually understand his mistake and return to what he knows best. But he doesn't regain life and warmth at the end. He changes from the start.

In Ikiru, Watanabe (Takashi Shimura) is a bland bureaucrat with a low opinion of himself and his usefulness on Earth. One day, he learns he has terminal cancer. After some wandering and hesitation, he decides to serve the world, give his life meaning, and fight to create a safe children's park in the city center.

The very first episode of Breaking Bad introduces us to Walter White (Bryan Cranston). He is a chemistry teacher bullied by some of his students. He supplements his income at a car wash where the boss, Bogdan (Marius Stan), exploits him without Walter having the courage to protest. When one of his students discovers him cleaning a car, Walter suffers yet another humiliation. Then one day, a triggering incident occurs: Walter collapses and learns he has terminal cancer. In the following scenes, Walter tells Bogdan off and attacks young people mocking his disabled son (RJ Mitte). In other words, from the very first episode of the series, the protagonist goes from passive to assertive, from dominated to dominant. This is not the only evolution Walter White experiences in the series, but it is clear that the intense conflict of the cancer diagnosis causes an immediate psychological transformation in him.

And let's not forget one of the major redemption fictions: Les Misérables. At the beginning of the novel, Jean Valjean's heart is full of hatred. Because he is released from prison, he is rejected by everyone. Only a generous bishop welcomes him. Valjean finds nothing better to do than steal from the holy man! Nevertheless, a few adventures later, he permanently moves to the good side and, under the name of M. Madeleine, starts doing good around him. And we are still at the beginning of the novel.

To these examples, we could add cases where the transformation occurs neither at the end nor the beginning but in the middle. This is the case in Schindler's List, Ninotchka, Toy Story, or The Lives of Others, analyzed below.

No one changes

Preliminary Remark No. 4. Despite what some screenplay theorists, mostly American, say, you can have a story in which no character changes. Asterix is indefinitely the same. Charlie Chaplin's Tramp never evolves in his films, neither within a given film nor from one film to another. To convince us, Chaplin shows this with a wink at the end of The Gold Rush, where the "Little Man" experiences a major social change: he becomes a millionaire. Despite wearing a top hat and fur coats, he can't help picking up a cigar butt. Inside, the Tramp hasn't changed. At the end of Big Deal on Madonna Street, all the protagonists are exactly the same as at the beginning: losers. Peppe (Vittorio Gassman) agrees to work, but is it because he has become honest or because he desperately needs to eat? Who changes personality in North by Northwest? Or in Amadeus, Some Like It Hot, Children of Paradise, Fargo, Once Upon a Time in the West, Memento?

Life of Galileo, a sumptuous play written by Bertolt Brecht, is an amusing example. From the start, Galileo is presented as a clever and stubborn man. Throughout the play, he opposes the Catholic Church. He recants before the Inquisition at the end of the thirteenth scene. The spectator who doesn't know the real story of the Italian scientist might be disappointed, but they don't think Galileo has changed personality, from brave to cowardly. Because the spectator understands, at a minimum, that Galileo was forced to recant. And then, in the third act, we discover that Galileo hasn't changed one bit. In reality, he made the Church believe he was changing his position to achieve his goal (to assert his revolutionary theories) clandestinely. The second element that lends a smile (or reflection) in Brecht's play, related to the subject at hand, is the fact that the Church will take more than two centuries to recognize its astronomical error. In short, in Life of Galileo, neither Galileo nor the Church changes!

Why grow?

So why, despite this impressive array of counterexamples, do many Americans insist on trajectory and, worse, on a well-defined type of trajectory? Some even demand that all characters transform except the villains—as if a Hollywood script were aimed at four-year-olds. Could this omnipresence of trajectory be due to an obsessive need to demonstrate that free will exists? Could it be due to confusion between the necessity for a story to be an eventful trajectory in itself and the idea that a character must have an internal trajectory? Or could it be due to religious influence? In Christian theology, the human being is born corrupted by original sin and must work towards salvation through redemption. In many religions, one must suffer to get better. A Christmas Carol, an extremely popular and influential tale in the Anglo-Saxon world, tells how a vile miser, an "old sinner" named Scrooge, transforms into a generous and compassionate man. The tale is a massive deus ex machina (cf. analysis below), an XXL moral lesson that many Anglo-Saxon parents must have imposed on their children. It may be encouraging for all those who want to save their souls, but is it essential that all stories depict one or even several redemptions? More generally, does a story necessarily have to involve a change? Biological life constantly evolves, certainly. Living organisms are born, live, and die. Inevitably, a human being is therefore not quite the same from one minute to the next. But this change is purely biological. We see naive, stubborn, or lazy people who remain naive, stubborn, or lazy all their lives and die naive, stubborn, or lazy. You might say that fiction doesn't have to be a copy-paste of life. Perhaps it has the obligation to show us the way to grow? I think, indeed, that this is clearly one of its functions. Except that... A story can show us the way to grow without any of its characters growing! I assert that one can interest a spectator with a story in which no one learns a lesson. And this for a fundamental reason: if someone must grow, it's the spectator, not necessarily one of the characters.

No one grows in Platoon or No Man's Land, but we, the spectators, are shaken and can hope to leave the screening with a better understanding of human barbarity. In Waiting for Godot, it is imperative that Vladimir and Estragon remain the same and do not change one bit. This is one of the elements that allows Beckett to convey his point of view to the spectators. The same goes for Antigone, The Cherry Orchard, Don Juan, The Misanthrope, or The Government Inspector. In all these cases, the fact that the characters remain the same until the end gives meaning to the work.

It should be noted that stories in which no one changes are all the more powerful if the circumstances presented would allow one or more characters to change. The strength of the works cited above is to plunge the characters into provocative situations and see that they do nothing, that they remain the same until the end. The lesson, if there is one, is for the spectator. The Remains of the Day offers another beautiful example of this principle.

The right measure

In short, beware of dogmas about character trajectory. There comes a point where the exceptions are so numerous that they invalidate the rule instead of confirming it.

Moreover, growing is not the only function of the story. Since myths and fairy tales, the story is also there to help us live and interpret the world around us. In other words, it serves to tame our emotions and make sense of things. And then it also serves to entertain us. For all these reasons, a well-conducted adventure film is just as respectable as a portrait full of humanity. Not to mention comedy! In many comedies, no character evolves. This sometimes contributes to enhancing the comedy and making it more meaningful. Comedy, any comedy, helps us accept our human limitations. If it doesn't suggest ways for us to grow, it clearly helps us live.

The measure with which to assess the interest of having a character who changes is your intention. It may make sense for another character than the protagonist to evolve. It may make sense for them to change at the beginning or in the middle and not at the end. It may make sense for there to be no character change at all. In the first two cases, work on the trajectory of the concerned character. In the last case, don't insist on the internal trajectory.

C. FOUR ESSENTIAL ELEMENTS

If, despite all the preceding precautions, you have decided to have a character transform during the action, you must design several narrative elements. They are essential for creating a worthy internal trajectory. They are also strongly recommended if you want to avoid some of your receivers (the spiritual children of Cinderella's stepsisters, cf. page 9) taking their subjective feelings about your work for an objective analysis. In order, you need:

1 - a scene showing the character trait that will be the subject of evolution. This moment sometimes features a second character that highlights (for the spectator) the lack of the trajectory protagonist. A sort of moral conscience or reasonable contradictor;

2 - the cause of the change, what I call the "trajectory conflict." This can be a particular conflict, a painful failure, an awakening, an accumulation of drops in a vase, another change, a mirror effect, etc. We will return to this extensively below. These conflicts are not necessarily created by the opposition between the protagonist's goal and obstacles—especially if it is another character than the protagonist who evolves. These are elements that attack one of the character traits of the trajectory protagonist;

3 - the moment when the character shifts, which I call the "trajectory climax." This moment is all the more effective if the character faces a choice (and even a dilemma), if we feel they take responsibility for their transformation, instead of being the plaything of external forces. We have just seen that the trajectory climax could be placed very early, in the first act, and even be confused with the triggering incident. Most often, however, it is found at the end of the story. It can then be before the (dramatic) climax, at the same time as the climax, or after the climax. Some theorists claim that the trajectory climax must be before the dramatic climax because it is the personal transformation of the protagonist that allows them to achieve their dramatic goal. This is true in Star Wars (1977). It is because Luke (Mark Hamill) accepts to trust the Force—and thus renounces rationality and technology—that he achieves his goal. But The Apartment, A Doll's House, and A Distant Neighborhood—excuse the little!—prove the fragility of this dogma. In these works, it is not because the protagonist changes that they can succeed, it is because they fail that they are led to change (cf. the analyses of these three works below). Another case, illustrated by Casablanca and Rain Man: because the protagonist changes, they renounce their goal. In short, on this subject as on so many others, let's remain open and flexible. All scenarios can work, and the right measure is always your intention;

4 - finally, a scene showing the new character trait. This fourth phase should not be neglected. Seeing the trajectory protagonist with their new humanity is always a joy for the receiver. It deserves to be assumed and clear.

The two most delicate phases are phases 2 and 3. It is not very complicated to imagine an evolution and show two opposing character traits (1 and 4). However, justifying a profound personality change and clearly showing the moment when this change occurs are two much more delicate matters. I find, moreover, that they are often handled lightly in many works. I see trajectory conflicts that are too weak or unconvincing—Lethal Weapon and Good Will Hunting are "remarkable" in this regard. I see trajectory climaxes where authors let the spectator guess what is happening in the character's mind. Presenting phases 1, 2, and 4 does not compensate for the absence of phase 3. You need all four phases, and they must all be clear and convincing.

Analyses of works from the perspective of internal trajectory

Let's examine various changes in the repertoire. The examples proposed below offer a range of transformations and means to achieve them. I think they are inspiring, including by their possible shortcomings.

(N.B. Attention, once again, I reveal important dramatic knots of the works in question. If you don't know them, I invite you to see them before reading what follows.)

OEDIPUS REX (c. 430 BC) and OEDIPUS AT COLONUS (406 BC)

The protagonist is Oedipus. He is also the character who changes. Oedipus has several characteristics. He is skillful, courageous, determined, compassionate, responsible. But the two character traits that interest us in this chapter are his blindness and irritability. I see three different forms of blindness in Oedipus. Before the scene with Tiresias, at the beginning of the second act of Oedipus Rex, Oedipus is consciously and unconsciously unaware of who Laius's murderer is. For spectators who know his legend from the beginning of the play, Oedipus is therefore the victim of a great dramatic irony. But after Tiresias, blindness no longer has the same meaning. Because the seer has given the protagonist the solution. It is certainly unbearable, which explains why Oedipus refuses to face it, but he has the answer within him. One can say that from the scene with Tiresias, the external obstacle that was Oedipus's ignorance has become internal. Finally, the third form of blindness in Oedipus's journey begins when he blinds himself (third act of Oedipus Rex).

Oedipus's irritability is first expressed with Creon, when he accuses his uncle/brother-in-law of plotting against him. Then the story, by Oedipus himself, of his confrontation with Laius shows that he easily loses his temper. Later still, Oedipus threatens the old shepherd several times with death. Oedipus clearly has a hot temper. At the climax, the great dramatic irony of the play is resolved, Oedipus's psychological blindness ceases. It is replaced by physiological blindness. Does Oedipus's impetuosity cease for all that? Not really. Oedipus is still hot-headed. The fact that he blinds himself is quite eloquent in this regard. In short, at the end of Oedipus Rex, the protagonist has gained in lucidity but is still irascible. It is Oedipus at Colonus that shows a change has occurred. Oedipus is much less angry there. "The sufferings and long days I have lived," he declares, "teach me not to be demanding." Certainly, he still has character, but he is a bit more humble. And even, at times, plaintive. N.B. By focusing on the old blind and exiled Oedipus, Oedipus at Colonus can be considered a sequel to Oedipus Rex. However, the two plays, written about twenty years apart, were not part of the same trilogy.

Conclusion. I wrote earlier that the mere resolution of a dramatic irony does not necessarily induce a personality change. Certainly, the ex-victim advances in knowledge, enriches themselves, but they can remain the same. If Oedipus Rex constitutes a valid exception, it is because the dramatic irony concerns nothing less than the intimate identity of the trajectory protagonist. One can remain the same when discovering they are deceived or have a hidden child. Or even that they have an unresolved dramatic need. However, one can hardly remain the same when discovering they have killed their father and married their mother. One would waver at less! Indeed, before the obligatory scene, Oedipus was reasonably content with himself. At the climax, he is consumed by shame. He has clearly changed. The trajectory conflict is essentially constituted by the discovery of the atrocious truth. And the trajectory climax coincides with the obligatory scene.

It should be noted that Tiresias and Creon play the role of reasonable contradictors. "Characters like yours are scourges to themselves," says Creon. "You reproach me for my furious stubbornness," says Tiresias, "while you cannot see the one who lodges with you." In a single sentence, Tiresias has just highlighted both Oedipus's impetuosity and his blindness.

THE THOUSAND AND ONE NIGHTS (13th century)

There are several versions of this major traditional ensemble. But the principle that interests us here is the same in all translations. The character who changes in the external story is Shahryar—while Scheherazade is the dramatic protagonist. In truth, Shahryar changes twice. At the beginning of the tale, the sultan has ruled his country justly for twenty years. Then he experiences two events in quick succession. First, he is betrayed by his wife. Then (in Joseph-Charles Mardrus's translation), he encounters a curious adolescent who advises him to beware of women. In Antoine Galland's translation, it is a lady who collects lovers. From that moment, every night, Shahryar brings a virgin, takes her virginity, and kills her in the morning. I am not exaggerating in saying that this is character-defining. After a while, Scheherazade, the eldest daughter of Shahryar's vizier, offers herself as a wife. She clearly states her goal: "I intend to stop the course of this barbarity that the sultan exercises on the families of this city." For a thousand and one nights, Scheherazade prevents Shahryar from killing her by telling him stories and taking care not to finish them when the morning light appears. Shahryar thus experiences a thousand and one nights of distraction, suspense, and frustration, a thousand and one more or less powerful hooks. In the end, Scheherazade presents the sultan with the three children they have had together and whom she has given birth to without his knowledge. Shahryar is moved to tears. He explains to Scheherazade's father that, thanks to the young woman, repentance has entered his heart. Not only does he renounce executing her, but when he explains what he has experienced to his brother, the latter abandons the same sexist barbarity and decides to marry Scheherazade's sister. Finally, the sultan has the stories told by his wife written and printed to edify future generations. Even today, some would do well to reread The Thousand and One Nights.

Conclusion. Phases 1 and 4 (before-after) are clear. The trajectory climax is, of course, the morning of the last night when Scheherazade has finished her tales and presents her children to the sultan. The trajectory conflict is a sum of elements. Shahryar experiences a long softening, punctuated by numerous mirror effects. For Scheherazade sometimes tells edifying stories about adultery, the power of women, and gender inequality. The complicated story of the sympathetic adulterer, for example, allows Shahryar to feel empathy for an adulterous sultana. In short, as Shahryar says, Scheherazade calms his heart while instructing his mind.

THE TAMING OF THE SHREW (1592)

The protagonist is Petruchio. The character who changes is Katharina. From her entrance, it is clear that Katharina does not hold her tongue. She refuses to let her father tell her what to do. At the beginning of Act II, she argues with her sister and ends up hitting her (a gesture indicated by Shakespeare). The trajectory conflict is interesting because Petruchio uses an original technique to tame Katharina. It consists of saying the opposite of what is. Petruchio explains it in a monologue (lines 169-180 of II/1): "If she complains, I'll say she sings like a nightingale. If she says nothing, I'll praise her eloquence..." In Ericksonian hypnosis, this technique aims to provoke confusion in the other and bypass the conscious blocks. Once married, Petruchio continues his reverse psychology. He starves his wife, prevents her from sleeping, and denies her the finest clothes, all in the name of his love and attention for her. Katharina is therefore thoroughly mistreated and in an extreme state of confusion. In scene IV/5, she finally submits to her husband's extravagances. Since he speaks of the Moon while pointing at the Sun, then it is indeed the Moon. Hortensio remarks to Petruchio that he has won. But Petruchio does not yet claim victory. Old Vincencio arrives. Petruchio describes him as a woman. Katharina does not contradict him.
opposition and joins in the game. Scene V/1 is the first moment that shows Katharina has changed. She agrees to kiss Petruchio in public and, for the first time, calls him "Love." In scene V/2, Hortensio's wife speaks ill of Petruchio. Katharina does not appreciate it at all. Then comes a bet. The winner will be the one whose wife proves the most docile. Against all odds, Katharina is the only wife to obey her husband. Finally, she delivers a speech whose scent of submission to the master-husband still sparks controversy today. Among other things, she declares that anger makes a woman lose her beauty and that she was wrong to be shrewish.

Conclusion. Phases 1 and 4 are evident. The trajectory conflict (described above) is original and effective. However, I find that the trajectory climax is not impactful enough. When Katharina agrees to go along with her husband (IV/5), her motivations are unclear. Does she do it, as Hortensio suggests, to avoid prolonging their journey? Similarly, when she agrees to kiss Petruchio in public, it's under the threat that they will immediately return to Verona and Katharina won't see if her sister marries the one she loves. In their 1967 adaptation, Franco Zeffirelli, Suso Cecchi d'Amico, and Paul Dehn show Katharina (Elizabeth Taylor) kissing Petruchio (Richard Burton) on the nose and not on the mouth! It's even worse than in the play. One is tempted to think that Katharina has still not yielded and even that she is preparing a trick for her husband.

BEAUTY AND THE BEAST (1757)
There are many versions of this tale. I analyze here the one by Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont. The protagonist is Beauty. The character who changes is the Beast. Beauty does not change; she is generous and honest from beginning to end. Her two sisters are mean and envious and remain so, even transformed into statues. The Beast has three characteristics: it is terribly ugly, kind, and not very intelligent. Throughout the time it hosts Beauty in its castle, the Beast asks Beauty to marry it, but she refuses. Beauty returns to her father. Seeing her sisters' husbands, she understands that beauty and intelligence are nothing compared to kindness. Moreover, she misses the Beast. She returns to the castle to find the Beast dying. Not seeing Beauty return, the Beast had decided to stop eating. Beauty then shows her love and finally agrees to marry it, which transforms the Beast into a magnificent prince, the one it was before being cursed.

Conclusion. All phases are present in the tale. Phase 3 (the trajectory conflict) deserves attention. Beauty's repeated refusals to marry the Beast generate frustration for the Beast, of course, like any obstacle, but they are also a source of humiliation and suffering. These are powerful "You are worth nothing" messages that the Beast receives for three months and endures without flinching. It is interesting that this tale does not rely on magical power to justify the change (as in Riquet with the Tuft). The Beast first undergoes a painful ordeal before transforming.

I wrote earlier that Beauty does not change. It's more subtle than that. Certainly, on a realistic level, she has the same personality, that of a compassionate young woman, from beginning to end. But let's not forget that we are dealing with a fairy tale. Mme Leprince de Beaumont's version symbolically describes how a child successfully navigates their Oedipal period, moving from love for a father to love for a man. From this perspective, there is no doubt that Beauty grows. She was childish, she becomes mature.
first. We don't want Rick to succeed in staying neutral; we prefer that he break through his shell and reconnect with his feelings.

THE APARTMENT (1960)

The character who changes is the protagonist: C.C. Baxter (Jack Lemmon). At the beginning, it's clear that he lets people walk all over him. One might also think he's an opportunist since he accepts being exploited with the specific goal of climbing the corporate ladder. That said, there might be other ways to advance in a company than by being mistreated like that. Baxter is the type who doesn't know how to say no. He is also incredibly kind. In the second half, when he could take advantage of the disastrous image Sheldrake (Fred MacMurray) has with Fran (Shirley MacLaine), he does everything to excuse Sheldrake and get him back with the young woman. Baxter is almost a pushover. Fortunately, his kindness doesn't go unnoticed by Fran. The worst blow comes to Baxter at the climax. He goes to see Sheldrake to tell him he has won Fran's heart and is leaving with her, and Sheldrake proves the exact opposite. At that moment, Baxter abandons his dramatic goal (to win Fran). We enter the third act. Only then, for the first time in the story, does Baxter say stop. He stands up as a man and tells his boss off.

Conclusion. Phases 1 and 4 are evident. The trajectory climax is the immediate consequence of the dramatic climax. The trajectory conflict is also linked to the dramatic conflict. Baxter is humiliated for much of the story. And, moreover, in a sensitive area: romantic feelings. In this regard, the scene where Baxter realizes that the woman he loves is sleeping with another man in his own apartment is a terrible blow. At the trajectory climax, the idea of continuing to lend his apartment to house Fran and Sheldrake's romance is unbearable to Baxter. However, he makes a choice. After all, even if he has lost love, he could keep the deputy director position that cost him so much. Besides, Diamond and Wilder make us believe for a moment that this is the option Baxter chooses. A false lead. In truth, the cup has overflowed. No one will wipe their feet on Baxter anymore.

There is a moral conscience in the film. It is embodied by Dr. Dreyfuss (Jack Kruschen). The great originality of this moral conscience is that it is mistaken about Baxter. Dreyfuss believes his neighbor is a complete playboy when he is not. And yet, when Dreyfuss suggests Baxter be a "mensch," paradoxically, we agree with the doctor. Certainly, Baxter doesn't need to learn to be a "mensch" by treating women correctly and abstaining, but he must learn to be a "mensch" by saying stop to those who abuse him. Logically, Baxter can't hear Dreyfuss since he knows Dreyfuss is mistaken about him. Dr. Dreyfuss may well be, in the entire repertoire, the only example of a reasonable contradictor who is wrong while being right.

ASTERIX AND THE NORMANS (1966)

Asterix and Obelix are the protagonists. The characters who change are Goudurix and the Normans. From his arrival in the village (on a flashy chariot), Goudurix considers he has landed among bumpkins and makes some disdainful remarks. When he sees a drakkar approaching the coast, he is seized with terror. From that moment, he becomes quieter, but the relaxed reaction of the Gauls confirms to him that he is among madmen. The Normans, on the other hand, do not know fear and are victims of great dramatic irony: they believe that fear gives the power to fly. They have therefore decided to visit a land where fear is known to acquire its secret. When Asterix learns the reason for their presence on Gaulish soil, he has the idea to use Assurancetourix, whose singing annoys even cattle. The tactic works. The Normans are so traumatized by the bard's first songs that they dread hearing more. Their study trip is a success; they now know what fear is. They even become a bit fearful. Moreover, they realize that fear does not give wings.

Conclusion. Like many series, Asterix has two good reasons not to offer a trajectory protagonist: it's pure comedy, and it's a series, like a sitcom, where the main characters must remain the same from one episode to another. Asterix and the Normans is thus a remarkable exception. Even though, of course, it is secondary characters, unique to this episode, who transform. The biggest change here is made by the Normans. Their trajectory conflict is original and convincing. For eight albums, Goscinny has shown us how traumatizing Assurancetourix can be. But very cleverly, Goscinny doesn't just rely on our possible knowledge of the series; he clearly prepares, at the beginning of this ninth adventure, the fact that the bard sings poorly. Goudurix also evolves. He starts snobbish and seems more humble at the end. The trajectory conflict in this evolution is extreme terror and the company of bumpkins who stand up to the Normans. He also goes from cowardly to courageous, but it's much more artificial. On page 39, he is chattering his teeth. A few panels later, he rejoices at seeing Asterix attack the Normans and tries to join the fight. He ends the album repeating, "Let them come!" But it didn't take much for him to become daring. It's easy to be brave when you're on the side of the strongest. And if his newfound courage was just another bluff? We would need to see Goudurix in Lutetia to know if he has truly evolved in this regard.

ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST (1975)

The character who changes is Chief (Will Sampson), while the protagonist is McMurphy (Jack Nicholson). Chief is a discreet patient, whose restraint is largely due to being deaf and mute. But McMurphy notices him immediately because of his size. Chief is a giant. McMurphy then begins to introduce Chief to basketball. Chief eventually enjoys it. At 34 minutes into the film, McMurphy explains to the patients how he plans to escape to watch his baseball game: by tearing out a hydrotherapy console and smashing a window with it. Chief listens attentively and then sees McMurphy fail. Chief is also present when McMurphy gets excited in front of a blank TV screen (cf. pages 342-343). Later, a fight breaks out between McMurphy and an orderly (Nathan George). Chief intervenes. At 80 minutes, in the hallway where Chief and McMurphy await electroshock therapy, McMurphy discovers that Chief is neither deaf nor mute. After the shock and excitement, McMurphy proposes to Chief that they escape. Chief mentions Canada. At 88 minutes, McMurphy tells Chief he can't take it anymore and must escape. Chief replies that he can't follow him. "You're much bigger than me," he tells McMurphy. Chief recounts that his father was big, but the institution broke him, just as it tries to break McMurphy. At 120 minutes, after several violent moments, Chief discovers that McMurphy has been lobotomized. He then tells him that he is ready to escape and that they will leave together. Chief kills McMurphy, smashes a window with the hydrotherapy console, and escapes.

Conclusion. The four phases are present in the film. Chief goes from submissive to autonomous. The twist at the 80th minute proves that Chief has long had a rebellious streak and dreams of leaving, but until now, he hasn't felt up to it. The trajectory conflict consists of several elements: McMurphy's friendship, the mirror effect McMurphy provokes, and the accumulation of violence triggered by the troublemaker's arrival in this balanced arena that is the psychiatric hospital. The trajectory climax is Chief's discovery that McMurphy has been lobotomized. This creates a salutary shock in him, leading him to "free" McMurphy and then free himself.

TOOTSIE (1982)

I read everywhere that Michael Dorsey (Dustin Hoffman) is a macho and that his trajectory is to learn to respect women. There must be two 1982 films titled Tootsie. In the one I saw, could someone explain in which scene(s) Michael is clearly presented as a macho who abuses women? At the beginning of the film, a friend of his, Sandy (Teri Garr), publicly says that Michael is a great guy. A few minutes later, during his birthday party, Michael gently flirts with two guests and seems to be sweet-talking a third. Not very subtle, sure, but not enough to call Simone de Beauvoir to the rescue. At 21 minutes into the film, Michael, disguised as Dorothy, calls the director (Dabney Coleman) a macho, not without reason. At 33 minutes, entering the women's dressing room, disguised as Dorothy, Michael is embarrassed to find April (Geena Davis) scantily clad. It's clear he's not in his Dorothy character and reacts as Michael. If he were truly macho, I'd see him taking the opportunity to ogle. Or he could brush against April's bra while pretending to be interested in the quality of the underwires. Instead, he's embarrassed. At 39 minutes, Michael explains to Jeff (Bill Murray) that he doesn't understand why Julie (Jessica Lange) is dating the director. Because it's clear he doesn't treat her right. Could Michael be a macho who finds another macho shocking? A subtle macho, in a way. Later, when Dorothy tells the director that he understands his machismo better than he thinks, is that proof that Michael was as abusive a macho as the director? Moreover, we must not forget that a good part of Michael's reactions and motivations are linked to the film's major dramatic irony. When he undresses to try on Sandy's dress and she catches him in his underwear, he prefers to make her believe he desires her rather than confess what he wanted to do. And if this fling has no future, it's more due to Sandy than to Michael.

In short, sorry, but I see Michael as a rather sensitive guy, not wildly feminist, of course, but not macho either. As a drama teacher, he inspires confidence in me, but I certainly wouldn't enroll in his phallocracy classes. In the third act, Michael tells Julie that he was a better man with her, disguised as a woman, than he had ever been with another woman as a man. The phrase is nice, except that it's said and not shown. Moreover, even if it's true, it's not enough for there to be a phase 4 in a story to retrospectively create a phase 1. Just as it's not enough to obsessively defend the internal trajectory to see it where there is little. If the authors of Tootsie wanted to show the transformation of a macho condemned to disguise himself as a woman to find work and understand in his flesh how painful sexism can be (a very beautiful subject), they should have characterized Michael as they characterized the director. In fact, if you want to see a macho in Tootsie, a real one, you should turn to him. Or to the old actor (George Gaynes), nicknamed "The Tongue," who almost assaults Dorothy towards the end. But maybe Hollywood didn't want such a radical protagonist.

One can also consider that the interest of the story is precisely to take an ordinary man, vaguely flirtatious but not excessively, superficial in his relationship with women (due to clumsiness, loneliness, alcohol abuse, or mild ideology), and make him understand that even when you respect women, it's more comfortable to be in a man's skin than in a woman's. I hear this argument. Even if, again, it doesn't seem to me that Michael is characterized at the start as someone who has no empathy for the female condition. He would have had to be more macho than that at the beginning, a light macho. Or he would have had to be very superficial in his relationships with women, but not just on the night he celebrates his birthday. Or he would have had to see no difference between how women and men are treated. For example, Sandy could have said to him: "Women are much more mistreated than men in our profession." And he would have replied: "What are you talking about? As long as you have talent..." And by disguising himself as a woman, he would have understood that indeed, actresses are not treated the same way as actors. But as it stands, I'm sorry, we don't have any of that. I don't see a remarkable internal trajectory in Tootsie, and while the film has many qualities, I don't find it exemplary on the subject that interests us here.

BACK TO THE FUTURE (1985)

The character who changes is George McFly (Crispin Glover), while the protagonist is Marty (Michael J. Fox), his son. At the beginning of the story, set in 1985, George is clearly characterized as a weakling who lets himself be bullied by his superior, Biff (Thomas F. Wilson). Unlike many trajectory protagonists, he acknowledges he has a trajectory flaw but finds lame excuses. When Marty teleports to 1955, he encounters the same George (30 years younger), already bullied by the same Biff (also 30 years younger). To convince George to talk to Lorraine (Lea Thompson), Marty's future mother, Marty scares George. But George fails, despite Marty's coaching. Marty then presents a plan to George: on the night of the dance, Marty will act too forward with Lorraine, George will intervene to defend her, and pretend to beat up Marty, which will cast George in a heroic light. George agrees to participate in this setup. When the time comes, he intervenes as planned but encounters Biff instead of Marty. He eventually finds the courage to hit Biff and save Lorraine. Then, during the dance, George asserts himself with Lorraine and kisses her. When Marty returns to 1985, the present has been altered. George is no longer cowardly, and Biff is at his service.

Conclusion. Phases 1 and 4 are evident. George is clearly cowardly at the beginning, clearly transformed at the end. The trajectory climax is easy to spot; it's the moment when George finds the courage to hit Biff. It's on the trajectory conflict that one might nitpick. What causes George's transformation? His love for Lorraine? Marty's coaching? The fact that George was ready to hit Marty (for show) and can't back down from Biff? Probably a combination of all these factors. But it must be acknowledged that his change is a bit easy. Note that Bob Gale and Robert Zemeckis at least have the honesty to justify George's change other than by the alteration of the future operated by Marty and Doc (Christopher Lloyd): George has already changed in 1955 (certainly with Marty's help).

RAIN MAN (1988)

The character who changes is the protagonist: Charlie (Tom Cruise). Charlie sells luxury cars, but business hasn't been going well lately. When he learns of his father's death - the inciting incident - he shows no emotion, much to the surprise of his girlfriend Susanna (Valeria Golino). Charlie then explains. He and his father had been estranged for years, and his father was quite odious when Charlie was a teenager. For much of the second act, Charlie finds it difficult to tolerate the company of his autistic older brother Raymond (Dustin Hoffman), whom he has kidnapped to obtain half of the inheritance. A significant turning point occurs at 70 minutes into the film. Thanks to a photo, Charlie discovers that he spent the first few years of his life with Raymond - whom Charlie then called Rain Man - before Raymond was institutionalized. Their father feared Raymond might harm little Charlie. From that moment, Charlie stops seeing his brother as a burden. But he is still interested in the inheritance. A second turning point occurs when, financially cornered, Charlie has the idea to exploit Raymond's gift to win money at the casino. It works magnificently. Relieved, Charlie begins to find qualities in his brother. He teaches him to dance and even expresses the desire to hold him. The dramatic climax goes almost unnoticed and would have deserved more emphasis. It must be said that the authors unfortunately neglected the dramatic question throughout the film and focused mainly on the trajectory question. As a result, there is not enough conflict in the second half. At the climax, in a scene inexplicably poorly filmed, the estate administrator (Jerry Molen) explains that he has full power over the inheritance distribution and is not legally obliged to give anything to Charlie. Charlie thus understands that he will not achieve his goal. However, the administrator offers Charlie a $250,000 check if he renounces seeking custody of Raymond. Charlie refuses the check. The next scene is an interview with a psychiatric expert (Barry Levinson) to decide Raymond's fate. Charlie declares that he has managed to bond with his brother and wants to continue taking care of him. An emotional image shows them side by side, head to head.

Conclusion. Phase 1 could have been more pronounced. At the beginning of the story, we see that Charlie is venal and not inclined to compassion, but we can find excuses for him. Note that Susanna serves somewhat as a moral conscience without it being emphasized. Phase 4 is clear. At the end, Charlie doesn't care about the money and expresses affection. The originality of Rain Man lies in the fact that Charlie changes in two personality traits, not just one. He could very well become compassionate while continuing to be interested in money. He could very well no longer be venal without enjoying the relationship he has with his autistic brother. On this subject of double change, the phases 2 deserve attention. The change in compassion is due to a laborious taming, which is a classic cause. However, the change in venality is precisely due to the first change. It's because Charlie has become fond of his brother that he is no longer interested in money. In other words, the first change (from cold to compassionate) serves as a trajectory conflict for the second change (from venal to disinterested).

If there are two changes, there must logically be two trajectory climaxes. The scene with the $250,000 check is clearly one. It concerns venality. However, the trajectory climax related to the lack of compassion does not exist. It could be the scene where Charlie discovers the photo of Raymond and him when he was three years old if Charlie radically changed towards Raymond at that moment. But that's not really the case. This scene only initiates Charlie's softening. On the trajectory of compassion, we are therefore dealing with a gradual change. This aligns with the idea of taming but makes the change difficult to appreciate.

GROUNDHOG DAY (1993)

The character who changes is the protagonist: Phil Connors (Bill Murray). At the beginning, Phil is clearly characterized as arrogant and jaded. Rita (Andie MacDowell) and Larry (Chris Elliott), the cameraman, serve as moral consciences, but it's clear that their perspective doesn't matter to Phil. At 33 minutes into the film, Phil realizes he can break the law without consequences. He takes advantage of it. He gorges himself, flirts, steals money, punches Ned (Stephen Tobolowsky), and begins to court Rita by manipulating her. But at 55 minutes, he gets a flurry of slaps. Rita has realized that Phil is not genuine. Phil then enters a period of despair. He tries to kill the groundhog and then to commit suicide in a thousand and one ways. In vain. At 64 minutes, Phil must face the fact: he is immortal, like a god. At 68 minutes, we understand that Phil is in love with Rita. Moreover, he acknowledges that he is a jerk. He no longer needs a reasonable contradictor. Rita tells him that what is happening to him may not be a curse, that there may be another way to see things. In the next scene, at 72 minutes, Phil acts like a saint. He gives all his cash to the homeless man (Les Podewell), brings coffee to Larry, saves a child (Shaun Chaiyabhac), etc.

Conclusion. Phases 1 and 4 are evident. The trajectory climax is the series of vain suicides. From there, Phil is no longer arrogant. However, he hasn't become helpful and genuine. He is mostly lost. He feels both immortal and totally powerless. It's Rita's reflection that will show him the path to redemption. The trajectory conflict is the immense frustration generated by the accumulation of failures. Romantic failures that culminate with the flurry of slaps. And failures in the face of the desire for death, which also conclude with a montage sequence. This trajectory conflict is particularly powerful. Already, it's no small thing to get rejected or not be able to die. But, in addition, these failures
reconnu qu'il avait besoin d'aide et a accepté de se laisser porter par sa famille. Dwayne a retrouvé la parole et a compris qu'il pouvait compter sur les autres. Olive, elle, a appris qu'elle pouvait être elle-même sans craindre le jugement des autres. Le climax de Little Miss Sunshine est un moment de libération collective où chaque membre de la famille accepte ses failles et ses forces. La danse finale symbolise cette acceptation et cette solidarité retrouvée. C'est un moment de joie et de réconciliation qui, bien que bref, laisse entrevoir un avenir plus lumineux pour chacun d'eux.
looks better, but is he really safe from another romantic failure, another depression, and another suicide attempt? Shortly before the climax, he sees an ad in a newspaper about a rival colleague, called the "No. 1 specialist on Marcel Proust," while Frank claims this title. He closes the newspaper without clearly telling us if it affects him or if he doesn't care. It's a shame. This moment was a great opportunity to show us if he has changed.

In fact, if we absolutely want to find a trajectory protagonist in Little Miss Sunshine, we must consider the entire family. They start dysfunctional and end a bit less dysfunctional. At the beginning of the film, each character is in their own neurosis. By the end, they have somewhat come out of their bubble and have united. The trajectory conflicts on this transformation are quite lovely. Several elements force the Hoovers to stick together, starting with the van they have to push to start. Their complicity is also expressed in the removal of the grandfather's body. Finally, when they all go on stage, they are more united than ever. But even on this trajectory, I still find that the authors cut too early. I would have liked to see, in the third act, some signs that this newfound family solidarity will last and wasn't just circumstantial.

THE LIVES OF OTHERS (2006)

The protagonist is Georg Dreyman (Sebastian Koch) while the character who changes is Captain Wiesler (Ulrich Mühe). In the first scene, Wiesler conducts an interrogation. In the second, he gives a lecture at the Stasi university. His ruthlessness and lack of humanity are evident. When a student finds the interrogation inhumane, Wiesler discreetly marks a small cross next to the student's name. At the theater, Wiesler suspects the playwright Dreyman of being too polite to be honest and suggests he be monitored. Surveillance begins. But Wiesler quickly understands that it was ordered by Minister Hempf (Thomas Thieme) for personal, not political, reasons. Wiesler lives alone in a grim building. He calls on a prostitute (Gabi Fleming) who cannot stay after the act because she has strict hours. You can sense that Wiesler would like a bit of human warmth. Moreover, he reads "Memory of Marie A.," a romantic poem by Bertolt Brecht. Dreyman learns that his director friend (Volkmar Kleinert) has committed suicide. He plays a piece that this friend had given him: "The Sonata of the Good Man." Listening to it, Wiesler sheds a big tear. Dreyman then quotes Lenin: "If I listen to Beethoven's Appassionata, I won't finish the revolution." Then Dreyman comments: "Can someone who listens to this music, who really listens to it, be a bad man?" At 53 minutes into the film, in an elevator, Wiesler meets a child who tells him that, according to his father, the Stasi is made up of bad people who imprison others. Wiesler goes to ask the child his father's name but refrains. Later, Wiesler meets actress Christa-Maria Sieland (Martina Gedeck) in a café, reassures her about her talent, and invites her to be authentic. He then learns that, thanks to him, Sieland has decided not to lose herself and has returned to her partner. At 72 minutes, Wiesler decides not to denounce Dreyman and notes "Nothing to Report" in his report.

Conclusion. Phases 1 and 4 are clearly present. At the beginning, Wiesler is sinister and dangerous. He sends chills down your spine. When he refrains from arresting the child's father and starts falsifying reports, he has clearly become more human. The trajectory climax is the scene where Wiesler listens to music so moving that it brings him to tears. What troubles me in The Lives of Others is the trajectory conflict. Or, if you prefer, the cause of the change. That Wiesler disapproves of his minister's attitude is not enough. Hempf cannot be the first to show corruption. Henckel von Donnersmarck wants us to believe that a humanist sonata is enough to transform someone (or slow down a revolution). Is it really sufficient? Music soothes the soul, certainly, but perhaps not to that extent. In Manhattan Murder Mystery, Larry (Woody Allen) says that listening to Wagner makes him want to invade Poland.

Does Dreyman change? At the beginning, one of his friends, Hauser (Hans-Uwe Bauer), tells him he must take a stand if he is a man. Indeed, Dreyman doesn't make waves; he adapts to the East German dictatorship. When his director friend commits suicide, he decides to take action. Does he go from cowardly to courageous? If so, it's not spectacular. Dreyman would be cowardly if he didn't defend his disgraced friends. Yet, he does so from the start. It seems to me that Dreyman's trajectory, if there is one, is much lighter than Wiesler's.

DEPARTURES (2008)

The character who evolves is the protagonist: Daigo (Masahiro Motoki). For almost an hour, Daigo is ashamed of his new job as a mortician. To the point that he hides what he does from his wife, Mika (Ryôko Hirosue). At 51 minutes into the film, his boss (Tsutomu Yamazaki) delicately prepares a deceased person. Daigo observes him. In voice-over, we then hear him express all his admiration for this work. "All his gestures seemed sublime to me," he concludes. At 61 minutes, Daigo talks about his father: "If I see him again, I'll beat him up." At 82 minutes, Daigo recounts that his father left with his mistress, that he was the worst father, and that he doesn't even remember his face. At 104 minutes, we understand that Daigo and his father had exchanged a stone. Shortly after, Daigo learns that his father has just died but refuses to deal with it. His friendly secretary (Kimiko Yo) reveals that she too abandoned her 6-year-old son to leave with a lover. Daigo accuses her of being as irresponsible as his father but eventually agrees to see the deceased. At first, he doesn't recognize him. When he sees how funeral home employees botch the work, he decides to take care of it himself. In his father's hand, he then discovers the stone Daigo had given him as a child. The memory of his father's younger face returns to him.

Conclusion. Daigo evolves on two levels. First, he changes his mind about his job. But it's not a change of personality. Moreover, this change of position on the mortician's job is also experienced by two other characters later in the film, when they attend a delicately conducted ceremony by Daigo.

The other evolution of Daigo, more profound, concerns the slate he has with his father. This evolution is undeniable. Daigo had resentment towards his father. After the trajectory climax, that is, the moment when he prepares his father's body, Daigo is at peace. In my eyes, it's not a change of character. Daigo is still the same. But it's an evolution. The only element that seems missing in the film is what triggers the click for Daigo. The fact that Daigo learns to appreciate his job and helps others to grieve is an element that prepares him to grieve himself, not for his father's death but for the abandonment he suffered and hasn't yet digested. The secretary also serves as a mirror character. Despite all this, after the secretary's speech, Daigo is still angry. The author could have explained what finally decides him to see the deceased.

Teachings

You see that there are roughly two significant types of trajectory. The one where the trajectory protagonist modifies a trait of their personality. Shahryar (One Thousand and One Nights) goes from barbaric to human. Nora (A Doll's House) goes from childish to adult. Baxter (The Apartment) goes from cowardly to courageous. In this case, the trajectory protagonist grows because they improve, morally or psychologically. Or the opposite. They worsen, so they degrade. The second type of trajectory is where the trajectory protagonist cleans up their life. Oedipal (Oedipus Rex) understands who he is. Rick (Casablanca) gets rid of his ghost. Daigo (Departures) reconciles with his father. In this case, the trajectory protagonist starts by clearing something that encumbered them, which often leads, as a bonus, to a change in characterization. Oedipal gains humility. Rick gets involved for others. Daigo is less angry.

In both cases, we have seen that a serious ordeal is needed to provoke this change. In other words, you must conceive a powerful trajectory conflict and exploit it.

CREATION OF THE INTERNAL TRAJECTORY

Phases 1 and 4

In Bullets Over Broadway, David (John Cusack) is both the dramatic protagonist and the trajectory protagonist. He goes from pretentious to humble. Symbolically, the very first dialogue of the film is: "I am an artist!" And the penultimate dialogue: "I am not an artist." Of course, Woody Allen and Douglas McGrath show what these two dialogues summarize. To create an internal trajectory, you must first determine the starting state of the character who changes and their end state. Be careful, the character does not change completely, they do not become someone else. They transform on one character trait and one only. Or they clean up one aspect of their life and one only.

A spectrum

A character does not have to go from one thing to its opposite, especially if they start from an extreme position. From idealist, for example, they would become cynical. They can just go from idealist to realist. In other words, they can evolve without necessarily reaching the other end of the spectrum. I invite you to draw the spectrum of the character who transforms. This will help you choose the right starting position and the right ending position for your project. Some examples of spectrums:

Gullible-Credulous-Confident-Cautious-Skeptical-Suspicious Stingy-Thrifty-Economical-Unselfish-Generous-Extravagant Devout-Practicing-Non-practicing-Agnostic-Atheist-Impious Dimwitted-Stupid-Limited-Sensible-Intelligent-Gifted

Rebellious-Rebellious-Defiant-Composed-Flexible-Docile-Submissive Corrupt-Corrupt-Correct-Honest-Virtuous-Legalistic-Incorruptible Coward-Cowardly-Timid-Cautious-Courageous-Rash-Fearless

You see that making one of your characters go from dimwitted to gifted might seem a bit artificial. "Limited to intelligent" already seems more plausible. At the same time, the journey must be real, significant. "Thrifty to economical" is not a remarkable evolution. So it's a matter of balance. The criteria for finding the right path are therefore:

1 - once again, the meaning you want to give to your story;
2 - the strength of the change. It must be sufficiently marked but not excessive;
3 - the credibility of the change. Cf. the work on phase 2, below.

A lack at the start

You will also note that if the starting position is median (unselfish, agnostic, sensible, composed, modest, etc.), there is a good chance that the audience will not perceive your character's need to evolve. We must feel that your character has a flaw, a clear defect. More generally, the idea is to show that the trajectory protagonist is not a complete human being. Lisa (Grace Kelly in Rear Window) offers a subtle example. From afar, she seems perfect. But we understand that she has never strayed from Park Avenue. She is perfect on a magazine cover. She needs to step out of her comfort zone, to know how to take risks to be whole. Lisa's apparent perfection hides her incompleteness and deprives her of part of her own life.

Blindness as an additional flaw

The character who transforms often has less perspective than the audience on their condition. We talked about this in the introduction. This blindness can take two forms.

1. The character is not even aware of having a questionable character trait. Phil Connors (Bill Murray in Groundhog Day) thinks he is normal. It's not him who is cynical, it's the others who are hicks or naive.
2. The character is aware of being different but does not understand that it costs them. Rick (Humphrey Bogart) knows he is self-centered, that he doesn't get involved for anyone, but he doesn't see the point of changing. Katharina (The Taming of the Shrew) knows very well that she has a strong character. What she probably doesn't know is how much it would benefit her to soften.

N.B. Not all characters are blind. Some know they have a flaw, they even sometimes know that it would do them good to get rid of it but they haven't yet encountered the right opportunity to change. Or they don't have the courage, like George (Crispin Glover) in Back to the Future (cf. analysis above). Brody (Roy Scheider in Jaws) is also in this case with his aquaphobia - even if this issue is quite light in the film.

What triggers the change?

The transformation of a character cannot just be a pious wish. Once you have an idea of the path you want your character to take, you need to imagine what will concretely transform them. What brings a human being to change psychologically? What can be the trajectory conflict? I see seven major avenues.

1. The character benefits from a successful therapy, whether it's psychotherapy, an exorcism, or a shamanic experience. But this takes up space and significantly directs your story. That's why it's rare for a work of fiction to describe these processes. However, there are works that come close to the psychotherapeutic journey. I think of Oedipus Rex, of course, The Taming of the Shrew (cf. above) or My Father's Journal.
2. The character benefits from learning (Pygmalion, Miracle in Milan, The Empire Strikes Back, The King's Speech). If the learning is successful, it is logical that the student transforms. That said, not all learning necessarily provokes a change in personality. One can master a language or a craft, for example, and remain naive, unstable, or selfish.
3. The character experiences an extreme experience. A coma, a car accident, a kidnapping, a dehumanizing confinement, a war scene, a near-death experience. Or even a divine vision. When you hate Christians and meet Jesus on the road to Damascus, you have valid reasons to convert and go from the wicked Saul, stoner of Stephen, to the kind Paul, propagator of the Christian doctrine to polytheists. In One Thousand and One Nights, the discovery of his wife's adultery makes Shahryar go from good to cruel. In La Strada, Gelsomina (Giulietta Masina) goes mad after witnessing a murder. It is the tragic death of their respective child that pushes Capulet and Montague to reconcile (Romeo and Juliet). In The Dark Knight, Harvey Dent (Aaron Eckhart) goes from legalistic to criminal after the unjust death of the woman he loves. That said, he already had schizoid tendencies and was already nicknamed Two-Face by his fellow students. In the climax of Tartuffe, Orgon, hidden under a table, hears his darling Tartuffe, who was supposed to marry his daughter, making an assiduous court to his wife. This stinging slap cleans Orgon of his fanatical blindness.

But, beware, not every trauma, however intense, is a cause of transformation. In Maus, Vladek goes through the Holocaust and survives. One might think that having been a victim of racism and dehumanization made him tolerant. Well, no. Forty years later, Vladek discriminates against Blacks.

In the examples of The Apartment, A Doll's House, Distant Neighborhood, or Groundhog Day above, we see that the extreme experience can take the form of a crushing failure. In these works, the protagonist spends a lot of energy to achieve their goal. When they understand that it is in vain and abandon their goal, they are ripe for transformation. The definitive failure acts as a trauma. I see in this case proof that conflict is not necessarily a source of unhappiness and destruction. It can push an individual to let go and open up to new mental structures.
4. The character experiences a catharsis or an epiphany. The catharsis is a hard, emotional moment that cleanses the character of what was burdening them (a ghost, a past trauma, a childhood wound). Casablanca offers a beautiful example. The epiphany can be created by a phrase, an image, a smell, a sound, which allows the scattered elements of a character's life to suddenly make sense. As if the pieces of a puzzle suddenly assembled to reveal the image. In Ratatouille, it's a magnificent elastic, like Proust's madeleine, that triggers Anton Ego's transformation.
5. The character faces a symbolic mirror. Either a mirror character or a mirror situation. One Thousand and One Nights and Distant Neighborhood use this process abundantly. It is also found in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, in the sense that McMurphy serves as a model, an inspiration, to Chief. As mentioned above, Jean Valjean's transformation occurs at the beginning of Les Misérables. In the chapter titled "Petit-Gervais," Victor Hugo explains that the bishop served as a mirror character for the protagonist: "The priest's forgiveness was the greatest assault and the most formidable attack."
6. Another technique, close to the mirror effect, is to label (generally positively) the character who must change. That is, a character reflects an image to the trajectory protagonist that does not necessarily correspond to them but can push them to evolve. In One Thousand and One Nights, Scheherazade calls Shahryar a magnanimous king endowed with good manners. In The Taming of the Shrew, Petruchio speaks highly of Katharina, even when she is unbearable. In Schindler's List, Lôwenstein and later Regina Perlman come to tell Schindler that he is good.
7. The character endures conflict after conflict or obstacle after obstacle, which often generates an accumulation of frustrations. The moment their cup overflows can lead them to let go and change.

You will note that all the processes described here are as valid in life as in fiction. Labeling (6), for example, is a classic. It is very effective, although unfortunately, it is often negative and therefore counterproductive. If you want the other to change, you must attribute a positive label to them, even if it does not correspond to what they truly are.

All these processes can be combined, of course. Be careful, some require preparation work. If there is a ghost, for example, we must know it before the trajectory protagonist purges it.

The general idea of the trajectory conflict is that evolution is done in pain, certainly not in ease. You must make your trajectory protagonist suffer, push them to their limits, twist the knife in their wound. Even if they benefit from a final circumstance that makes them change, it is preferable that they have suffered well before. Magical conversions do not work in fiction.

Sudden or progressive?

I have never been convinced by progressive changes. It may work in life but, in my opinion, not in fiction. Even in the learning cases mentioned above, the student fails, resists, makes mistakes, until finally mastering what they are supposed to learn. The same goes for taming stories. Most often, the characters oppose each other until the end, until finally falling into each other's arms. Rain Man, analyzed above, is an exception, which I do not find, by the way, completely successful. Moreover, Rain Man can afford it because it has two changes, the second not being progressive.

Not only does it seem more credible to me that the change occurs at a specific moment but, in addition, a progressive change, if well arranged, risks being invisible - since the evolution is done in small touches. By contrast, a sudden change has the advantage of being clear. Of course, this does not exclude preparation elements. Just because a change occurs at a specific moment does not mean it should not be justified beforehand. This is one of the major functions of the trajectory conflict, which acts on the trajectory protagonist long before they transform.

I see an exception to the principle of sudden change: it is an Italian comedy from 1971 titled The Witness. Let's see why the progressive change is justified there. The Witness tells the story of a prudish woman, Isolina (Monica Vitti), who gets to know a pimp, Marino (Ugo Tognazzi), in a legal case. After causing his incarceration, she visits Marino in prison and gets closer to him. Isolina and Marino soon marry. Then begins, on Marino's part, a subtle conditioning. Little by little, he leads his wife to loosen up, and eventually to prostitute herself. He goes gently, asking her for more and more at each step. This "learning" is accompanied, of course, by dramatic irony. Because, unlike Isolina, we understand what Marino is doing. As you can see, in The Witness, the progressive change is justified. It is obvious that Isolina's transformation, from chaste woman to woman of easy virtue, could not happen abruptly. If Marino had asked Isolina to prostitute herself bluntly, she would have categorically refused. And if he had insisted and insisted and insisted hoping she would eventually crack, I doubt it would have worked better.

It is no coincidence that I mention dramatic irony in the example of The Witness. Because progressive changes have an even more serious disadvantage than the clarity problem mentioned above. When you create a progressive change and make sure that this progression is perceived by the audience, you announce the end. Suppose you start a story with a violent character. After a few scenes, they are only agitated. A few more scenes and they become merely emotional. Then relatively composed. Then calm. You see that the audience has understood that your character will end up gentle or affectionate. In other words, progressive change is only acceptable if your character...
will end badly, because then you create a crescendo. You announce, certainly, but you announce a dark ending. Whereas if the viewer anticipates a change for the better, you deflate the suspense linked to the internal trajectory. You turn the announcement into a phone call, which is never a good idea. If Super Witness works, it's both because it's the only credible transformation and because Isolina ends badly.

Physical vs. psychological transformation. A progressive physiological transformation seems more credible or effective to me than a progressive psychological transformation. That said, physical transformations can also be sudden. We saw this with Beauty and the Beast earlier. At the very beginning of The Metamorphosis, Gregor wakes up transformed into an insect. The change happened overnight. In The Fly, André (David Hedison) ends up with a giant fly head right after his teleportation. In contrast, in the 1986 remake (The Fly), Seth's (Jeff Goldblum) physical transformation is progressive. After his teleportation, he just has a few coarse hairs on his back and extraordinary athletic abilities. Gradually, he metamorphoses into a monster. But it's interesting to note that Seth's psychological transformation is not progressive. From the moment of teleportation, Seth is no longer the same; he becomes wild, mystical, and irritable. A little later, a major dramatic irony is resolved. Seth understands what we have known for twenty-five minutes, namely that he has fused with a fly. He immediately becomes attentive again, less wild. He asks Veronica (Geena Davis) for help.

At the beginning of The Picture of Dorian Gray, Dorian listens favorably to the cynical Lord Henry, but Lord Henry does not change Dorian because he is already ready to sell his soul. He thus wishes that his portrait ages in his place. Then he embarks on a life of debauchery, while the painting begins to show the stigmas of Dorian's vices. The portrait evolves progressively, but not Dorian. He is, however, torn. He sometimes regrets having such a dark soul. That doesn't stop him from continuing to do evil. (Note: Warning, I reveal the ending.) Dorian eventually understands that his guilt and his attempts at repentance were mostly motivated by vanity. He stabs the portrait, which has the effect of returning the painting to its original state and physically transforming Dorian, who goes from a handsome young man to a hideous corpse. In Oscar Wilde's novel, Dorian does not transform psychologically. And he only transforms physically and brutally at the end, after living twenty years without aging. The authors of the most famous film adaptation, the one from 1945, introduced a semblance of redemption into the story. Dorian (Hurd Hatfield) gives up marrying Gladys (Donna Reed) to avoid harming her. Gladys, whom he knew as a child and who is probably the only person he cares about. He notes that this renunciation slightly and favorably alters his hideous portrait. He seems determined to pursue the path of redemption. But in wanting to kill the portrait, he hastens his end.

Physical metamorphoses can thus serve as metaphors to signify psychological evolution, but not necessarily. They can also serve as curses, like Gregor's in The Metamorphosis, or as rewards, like the transformation of Pygmalion's ivory statue into a young woman. They can also serve as trials, like Midas's ability to turn everything he touches into gold. In The Metamorphoses, Ovid tells that Tiresias was transformed into a woman for seven years before regaining his male body. This allowed him to understand the differences between the two sexes from the inside, but it is not said that it made him grow. Then Hera made him blind, and Zeus gave him the gift of divination. Three major metamorphoses, undoubtedly. Did they alter the character's characterization? Ovid does not indicate.

Character narrative and internal trajectory

The notion of internal trajectory is more important if you are writing a character-driven story or a story mixing plot and character than if you are writing a pure plot-driven story (cf. page 75). Very schematically, the work of the author of a plot-driven story consists of placing obstacles on the path to the goal and sub-goals. While the work of the author of a character-driven story is to make the protagonist experience conflicts that push them to their limits, reveal their personality, and sometimes force them to change, become aware, and make a choice. In both cases, you will note that fortunately, there is conflict.

Be careful, a portrait does not necessarily imply an internal trajectory. Don Juan is a portrait, but no one evolves in the play. Don Juan remains the same until death: an impious libertine. The same goes for The Cherry Orchard. The same goes for About Schmidt. Throughout the film, Warren Schmidt (Jack Nicholson) receives messages "You don't exist," some very violent, until Ndugu's letter finally proves to him that he is worth something. It is such a relief that Warren bursts into tears. However, he does not change. One cannot say that he goes from someone who has no self-esteem to the opposite. From the beginning of the film, Warren is convinced that he is worth something. If he goes to his former company to offer his help, it is because he thinks he can be useful. It is the events that keep sending him the opposite signal.

Moreover, in some stories that can be described as portraits, it is not the character who is the subject of the portrait that changes. We talked about this on pages 78 and 82-84.

Trajectory question and chorality

If you have several protagonists, whether co-protagonists with the same goal (The Odd Couple or The Dirty Dozen) or several protagonists in a choral story, you can design a trajectory for each character. The three protagonists of We All Loved Each Other So Much do not evolve in the same way. They all start the film with the same character trait: idealism. In the end, Antonio (Nino Manfredi) has not changed; he is still as naive, while Nicola (Stefano Satta Flores) is disillusioned, and Gianni (Vittorio Gassman) is corrupt. You can even have a non-choral story, with a single protagonist, and nevertheless several characters who change, each in their own way. This is the case in the example of Culbuto, proposed on pages 200-203, in which the protagonist and another important character transform. Of course, for both characters, it is the protagonist's action that causes this change.

An emotional learning

Think of the internal trajectory as emotional learning, not intellectual learning. Characters do not learn an idea or information (as after a fascinating discussion or reading a good book); they learn to act and react differently. At the end of The Wizard of Oz, Dorothy (Judy Garland) has not only understood that there is no place like home, she has also learned it. Or, if you prefer, she has understood it in her flesh.

Above all, no "trajectory phone"

I have already written this in the previous chapter, but I insist: in my opinion, a story that offers only an internal trajectory does not work. You cannot simply present a character who needs to change and then opportunely place elements and characters on their path that will help them without your protagonist undertaking anything. And this even if they experience conflict. Because it is not credible. The deus ex machina is obvious. You can feel the author behind, arranging things for their protagonist. In life, when you are stingy and bitter, no moralizing spirit comes to visit you to put you on the path to redemption (cf. the analysis of A Christmas Carol above). When you are suicidal, in debt, and blind to your inner beauty, no angel comes to save you (until, it seems, prostituting themselves for you!), as in Angel-A. You will tell me that what is true in life may not be true in fiction and vice versa. And that, moreover, some fictions are metaphors. Certainly. But in fiction, an angel, a coach, or a spirit cannot have the sole and unique objective of saving the protagonist. In It's a Wonderful Life (1946), mentioned above, Clarence (Henry Travers), a second-class angel, does not aim to save George (James Stewart); he aims to earn his wings.

At the beginning of The Beat That My Heart Skipped, Thomas (Romain Duris) is presented as a nasty guy who engages in illegal real estate speculation at the expense of poor people. He clearly needs to grow. And then suddenly, an inciting incident, he crosses paths with a concert organizer (Sandy Whitelaw) who makes him want to return to the piano. This fortuitous encounter has the taste of a deus ex machina. It makes us unconsciously say: "Ah, this will help him change." One might retort that this is exactly the effect produced by the fortuitous curse that befalls the protagonist of Groundhog Day. Yes, except that it is precisely a curse that befalls Phil Connors (Bill Murray), not help. That's the whole difference between an announcement and a phone call. We know that an inciting incident is the only element of a story that has the right to come out of nowhere, one of the few moments when the author is allowed to use chance. Except... if the inciting incident phones a solution to the protagonist's problem. When Elsa (Ingrid Bergman) appears in Rick's (Humphrey Bogart) café at the beginning of Casablanca, we feel Rick's discomfort, and no one thinks it is timely. When Krogstad launches his blackmail at the beginning of A Doll's House, we feel sorry for Nora; no one thinks it will help her grow.

It should be noted that "trajectory phones" are often felt as author fantasies. "Ah, how wonderful it would be, when I feel worthless, to stumble upon the right situation or the right person who has nothing else to do but help me get better." Certainly, any story can be considered a metaphor for a personal problem of its author. But the idea is not to show it. I think an author should not put themselves on stage directly; they should hide behind their characters and situations. For example, hide behind a dramatic pitch. That's why I maintain that a character's transformation can only happen through the exploitation of a pitch. The principle is always the same: because a character seeks to achieve a dramatic goal and this generates obstacles and conflict (including trajectory conflict), then a character (or another) is led to transform.

6. FOUNDATIONS
"Before writing a single word, I must possess the character from top to bottom."
(Henrik Ibsen [44])
"From the start, I know where I'm going. (...) If you know where you're going, you can pace your story and avoid downtime."
(René Goscinny [37])
Once you have a clear formulation of your dramatic pitch, and possibly the internal trajectory of one of the characters, you have the first elements of your story's foundations. It's time to complete this work by answering the following questions. You will note that some answers are already known, as they are part of the pitch.
- What is the title?
- What is the characterization of the protagonist? Is one of the characters haunted?
- What is the inciting incident?
- What is the protagonist's general goal? What is at stake for the protagonist?
- Who are the important characters other than the protagonist necessary to advance the action? What is their characterization?
- What are the protagonist's motivations, sub-goals, and means?
- What is the first-act-second-act transition? Is there a declaration of intent?
- Is there an arena?
- What is the nature and content of the obstacles? Is there urgency?
- What is the climax? What is the dramatic response?
- What happens in the third act?
- Is the structure enriched? If so, what are the third-act twist, second climax, and second dramatic response?
- Are there one or more general dramatic ironies?
- Are there one or more notable diffuse dramatic ironies?
- Is there a median climax? A twist? A point of no return?
- Will there be comedic elements outside of dialogue or activity?
- What are the trajectory elements? Protagonist, conflict, climax, response? Reasonable contradictor?
It is not necessary to answer these questions in the order proposed here, although it is preferable for certain elements. If, for example, you can very well find the title after defining the climax or the dramatic response, it makes no sense to think about obstacles before knowing the general goal.

A. THE TITLE
Disney Studios did not want the title "Dead Poets Society." That didn't stop the film from being as successful as we know. I don't believe at all in the myth of the good title or the selling title, even for strong premises. For the simple reason that a title quickly becomes a concept (even before the premiere) that goes beyond the mere meaning of its words, a bit like a child's first name. If I ask a cinephile to clear their mind and throw them: Bringing Up Baby, they will immediately say it's a film directed by Max Pécas or Émile Couzinet. Wrong! It's a "screwball comedy," one of the most famous in cinema history. When you know it, you no longer pay attention to its title.
It is true that some titles are a bit heavy to bear. "The Amazing Adventures of Superman" is probably more attractive to the general public than Testament of a Murdered Jewish Poet or Rodriguez in the Land of Merguez or I Bought a Hooker's Deodorant (an authentic title of a play by Jim Cartwright). But we are dealing here with extreme cases. For the rest, the myth of the good title is mainly maintained by decision-makers seeking to have power over works. The three only valid criteria for choosing a title are:
1 - that the title suits you as an author. You don't want to spend months writing a work whose title doesn't inspire you;
2 - that it is coherent, that it doesn't lead the viewer astray. If you make a serious film about the Algerian War, don't call it "The Soldiers Have Fun in the Desert";
3 - that it doesn't sell the dramatic response.
Note that taking into account the audience and the announcement that a title constitutes is not a trend born with Hollywood shopkeepers. "Shakespeare," Robert McKee [55] reminds us, "did not call his play Hamlet but The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark. He gave his comedies titles like Much Ado About Nothing or All's Well That Ends Well. Thus, every afternoon at the Globe Theatre, his Elizabethan audience was psychologically prepared to cry or laugh."
In short, there are no good or bad titles, only adequate or inadequate titles. Since the title matters little, you are probably wondering why it is part of the foundations. It's because finding a title contributes to giving an identity to the work in progress, to conferring it a beginning of existence. And... to give it meaning. Sometimes, you only find the title at the end. But if you can find it at this stage of development, it's a plus. At a minimum, adopt a provisional title.

B. THE CHARACTERIZATION OF THE PROTAGONIST
By definition, the protagonist is the character who experiences the most dynamic conflict. It is also, of course, the character whose story is told, with whom the viewer identifies (emotionally), and generally the one who occupies the most screen time.
Logically, the main characterization of the protagonist reflects the terms of the dramatic pitch. This seems logical, yet I have often seen a gap between the characterization and what the pitch suggests.
Three phases: conception, setup, and exploitation Whether for the protagonist or other characters, the work of characterization is threefold. First, the character must be conceived on paper, then translated into scenes. This translation work itself has two branches: the presentation of the character and the exploitation of their characterization.
When Edmond Rostand composed Cyrano de Bergerac, he probably thought that his protagonist should be brilliant, with a prominent nasal appendage, complexed, and sensitive. Cyrano is the king of panache in all areas, except in love. This is the first step, the conception on paper. At the beginning of the play, the character is discussed before he enters the scene. Some characters sketch Cyrano's portrait: exquisite, rhymer, swordsman, physicist, musician, proud, and with a nose he never removes. But all these character traits are said. Rostand knows he must show them. That's when Cyrano enters the scene. The nose is "terrible," as the playwright immediately indicates to the makeup artists. Then Rostand shows what he had some characters say. Cyrano forces an actor off stage, issues a collective challenge to the audience, provokes a troublemaker, takes offense, and fences with the Viscount while displaying wit. Quite a feat. Finally, Cyrano explains to his friend Le Bret that he loves Roxane but will never dare tell her because he is terribly afraid she will laugh at his nose. All this constitutes the second phase. The character is established in all his facets. From there, Rostand moves to the third phase, which is to exploit what he has set up. Cyrano's brilliance, panache, and complex will fuel the entire second act.
When Francis Veber wrote The Odd Couple, one can imagine that he conceived Pignon as a clumsy, romantic, and suicidal underdog. Then, Veber knows he must present these character traits at the beginning of the film. As in Cyrano de Bergerac, the character is discussed before being seen. But it's light. Christine (Anny Duperey) says: "He was very kind," and her mother (Gisèle Pascal): "Wasn't he the one who was always trying to kill himself?" Then Pignon appears, played by Pierre Richard—is it necessary to specify that a character's appearance plays a significant role in characterization? Pignon is writing a suicide note. When he learns he has a son and that Christine thought of him to find him, he cries, makes a blunder, and enthuses: "I have no job, my wife left me, I live with my mother who makes my life impossible. I have no plans, no future, everything is blocked, ruined, isn't it wonderful?!" The character is thus established where others might have lazily relied on Pierre Richard's established persona. Then Veber exploits the characterization he has set up. He does so largely by contrast, as he has taken care to place a dominant, assertive, and brutal character, Lucas (Gérard Depardieu), opposite Pignon. We thus see Pignon being victimized, worrying like a mother, crying with a desperate thug (Roland Blanche), and, of course, opposing Lucas on how to conduct the investigation.
In this chapter, we will focus only on the first phase, which is part of creating the foundations. The second and third phases of characterization work will be addressed in the next chapter.
Phase 1: Character conception
Start by giving your protagonist a name. It's like the title of the work; it gives the character a beginning of existence. Preferably, give them a first name that fits the context and that you like. As with the title, you don't want to project yourself for months onto a character whose name you despise or hate.
Then, give them an age, a physical appearance, and, if you can, a costume. We know how much a costume can help an actor find their character. You can do your work and all those who will collaborate on its creation a service by providing some indications on this subject. The costume represents the character's way of dressing, the kind of clothes they wear, but not only that. Beyond the wardrobe, the costume includes hairstyle, posture, certain physical traits, the type of makeup, etc. Marie-Anne Chazel [21] recounts that she entered the skin of Zézette (wife X) the day she put on her character's dental prosthesis (Santa Claus is a Bastard).
Next, imagine the main characteristics of your protagonist: their qualities, flaws, skills, wounds, demons, dramatic need, possible ghost (cf. below), secret dream, fixed ideas, what they hide, etc.
Don't be afraid to give your protagonist one or two flaws. It will make them more human and, if you take care to make them experience conflict, will never prevent the viewer from being interested in them. Tom Fontana [31] reports that when he was writing Oz, Chris Albrecht, his boss at HBO, told him: "I don't care if the characters are likable as long as they are interesting." This sentence should be plastered in large letters in all the offices of all fiction managers on the planet. N.B. The principle also applies negatively to opponents: give them qualities. Unless you are addressing 4-year-old children, opponents should not embody pure evil.
Distinguish psychological flaws that handicap the character themselves from moral flaws that harm others. In Casablanca, Rick has a moral flaw; he is selfish and without compassion. He also has a psychological flaw: he no longer believes in love. In Read My Lips, Clara (Emmanuelle Devos) is a social doormat. In One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) is a rebellious libertine. In Amadeus, Salieri is envious, hypocritical, and villainous. In Gone with the Wind, Scarlett (Vivien Leigh) is proud, self-centered, and manipulative. In Dexter, Dexter (Michael Hall) has a gigantic psychological flaw: he feels no emotion, and a gigantic moral flaw: he kills impulsively. In House, House (Hugh Laurie) is drug-addicted, misanthropic, and without compassion.
the repertoire is filled with intellectually unappealing but emotionally sympathetic characters.

Be mindful of moral flaws. It is even more imperative to create conflict for an amoral or immoral protagonist than for one without moral flaws. Rick, McMurphy, Scarlett, Dexter, and House experience a lot of conflict. If you forget this fundamental rule, you end up with characters that are intellectually and emotionally unappealing. Like Henry (Michael Rooker) in Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer or Jaonovici at the beginning of Once Upon a Time in France.

Three traits maximum  
Don't burden yourself with lengthy characterizations. Aim for the stereotype to which you add a nuance. Too many characteristics kill characterization. In life, a human being can be rebellious, greedy, selfish, idealistic, intolerant, funny, cowardly, home-loving, and sensitive all at once. But in a dramatic work, there's no room to address all these traits. If you assign them to a character, you'll either drown and the character will end up bland or incoherent, or, without realizing it, you'll only retain two traits, three at most, and not address the others.

This tendency to characterize characters by filling ten pages of traits probably comes from acting schools. They often offer a long questionnaire to help actors prepare a role. It includes questions like "What are your favorite dishes?" or "Did you have a difficult birth?" I think it's much more useful for an actor than for a writer. Because an actor doesn't start from scratch. They already have a role. Hopefully, the role is well-written and coherent. So, the questionnaire allows them to create and enrich the character from existing elements. Whereas the writer starts from nothing. The page is blank. If they start answering all these questions, in my opinion, they get lost. And this is especially true when starting a story. Over time, the character will develop. They will also develop when embodied by an actor. But I think it's better to start with a small handful of important traits.

N.B. In my definition, the role represents everything in the text concerning a given character, which is therefore offered to actors to play. The character is the whole fictional human being of which the role only reveals a few fragments, a few symptoms. The role is thus the visible part of the character-iceberg.

Not only can a character not be rebellious, greedy, selfish, idealistic, intolerant, funny, cowardly, home-loving, and sensitive all at once, but there are about thirty-six ways to be rebellious, thirty-six ways to be greedy, thirty-six ways to be selfish. In short, it's not enough to decide on two or three traits of character; you must also make them specific.

If your character is rebellious, does their rebellious spirit manifest politically or socially? Are they rebellious only in their profession (an avant-garde artist, for example) or also in their personal life? Are they aware of having a rebellious spirit? If so, do they justify their rebellion with an ideology? Do they have a problem with authority, whatever it may be, or do they just dislike being directed? Do they have a problem with institutional limits or all limits, including those of nature? Do they rebel on principle, for any reason, for trivialities? Do they have only a spirit of contradiction? Is their rebellion static—closed, obtuse, refractory—or dynamic—they easily revolt and even provoke, inciting opposition? Are they rebellious towards certain people in particular and not at all towards others? Are they rebellious towards their era because they are visionary? I'll stop there, but you see that if you're not precise, your character will be impossible to pin down.

The ghost  
A ghost is a past event that haunts a character. It's a strong element of characterization. One of the most well-known ghosts in the repertoire is that of Sophie (Meryl Streep) in Sophie's Choice. Upon arriving at Auschwitz, a doctor forced her to choose which of her two children would be exterminated immediately. Lioubov (The Cherry Orchard) also has a ghost. Her son drowned at the age of seven.

It's not necessary for there to be a ghost in a story. And it's not necessary for the ghost to belong to the protagonist. In Spellbound, the protagonist is Dr. Petersen (Ingrid Bergman) while the haunted character is John Ballantyne (Gregory Peck). In Chinatown, the protagonist (Jack Nicholson) has a small ghost (more mentioned than detailed) but it's mainly Evelyn (Faye Dunaway) who has suffered a major trauma.

Of course, a ghost is not designed to be decorative. If you imagine a ghost for one of your characters, you must exploit it. First, in the characterization. Part of the actions and attitude of the haunted character must be linked to their ghost. Often, this also involves creating a mystery around the ghost and waiting for the best moment, often the end, to reveal it. But there are exceptions. Lioubov's ghost is revealed in the first act of The Cherry Orchard. It helps us better understand the protagonist, the reason for her exile, and her relationship with her property. Citizen Kane offers another interesting exploitation. We see Kane's foundational trauma from the beginning, but it's only at the end that we understand it was his ghost.

The wound and its elastic  
As we've just seen, the ghost is a trauma. It is more of an isolated and often melodramatic event. The wound refers more to the educational flaws received by your character over time.

The notion of elastic deserves attention. An elastic is an emotional process that often brutally connects a present experience to a past experience (often a wound). A character is in contact with someone or is experiencing an action when suddenly they feel a surge of emotion. In life, people who don't know the principle of the elastic tend to believe that the emotion is generated by the present situation when in fact, it is due to this process which, like a powerful temporal elastic, has reactivated a childhood wound or brought us back to our childhood, often to a painful moment of it. When Proust dips a madeleine in tea and suddenly remembers his Aunt Léonie with happiness (Swann's Way), he benefits from a positive elastic. Unfortunately, elastics are far from always happy.

An essential characteristic of elastics is to produce a disproportionate reaction to a present event. For example, one bursts into tears or enters into excessive rage. Or a panic fear—phobias fall under the principle of the elastic. It's a reaction that can be characterizing in fiction. If you wish to exploit it, you will need to conceive the corresponding wound of your character.

The "backstory"  
The ghost, wounds, and elastics are part of the protagonist's past, what the Anglo-Saxons call the "backstory." It is an important element of characterizing characters, especially the protagonist. Knowing their backstory is the best way to give the impression that there was a life before your story, that your protagonist doesn't come from nowhere.

The evil double  
In Dramaturgy [51], I extensively develop the notion of internal obstacle. It's an element of the protagonist's personality that generates obstacles on their path. Hamlet's hesitations prevent him from avenging his father (Hamlet). Jimmy Ringo's reputation as a sharpshooter (Gregory Peck in The Gunfighter) prevents him from leading a peaceful life. Howard's clumsiness (Ben Miller in The Worst Week of My Life) prevents him from being accepted by his in-laws.

Don't confuse the internal obstacle with the internal conflict, even though both are elements of characterization that deserve attention. An internal conflict is a conflict experienced by a character (protagonist or not) and results from an opposition between two traits of said character. Alceste, the protagonist of The Misanthrope, suffers from a nice internal conflict: he is madly in love with a socialite whose flaws annoy him and should make him flee. But "reason does not govern love." Pinocchio, examined in chapter 5, offers a fine example of a character constantly torn between two contradictory desires: the reality principle and the pleasure principle. An internal conflict can appear during the action, but here, I want to talk about the internal conflict that is part of one of the characters from their entry into the story, which gnaws at them and thus constitutes an element of their characterization and not a type of conflict specific to the action. In The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, Dr. Jekyll, who is the main character of Stevenson's novel but not its protagonist, is confronted with a brutal and embarrassing double, Mr. Hyde. If Jekyll were a pure and innocent scientist unwittingly embarked on an unfortunate adventure, this conflict would not be an element of characterization. But we learn towards the end of the novel that Jekyll has long been attracted to vice, that he already has this internal conflict within him. It's even what led him to conceive a potion meant to dissociate his soul.

I'm not talking about simply disturbed characters either. In these cases, one can consider that their neurosis/psychosis is exploitable as an internal obstacle. I'm talking about characters who have a duality, two antagonistic characteristics, who suffer from it, and who, when they are aware of it, fight to overcome it (generally, to make one of the traits win). Because, of course, when a character possesses an internal conflict, the story will take care of staging it.

Thus, many stories exploit the protagonist's internal conflict. In Psycho, Marion (Janet Leigh) is plagued by guilt even before stealing the $40,000. Note that Norman (Anthony Perkins) faces a similar problem. He fights against a parental figure that sometimes takes control of his mind. Is Kane (Orson Welles) a humanist or a tyrant (Citizen Kane)? Both, my general. In fact, he knows it. Doesn't he say to Thatcher (George Coulouris) at the beginning of the film: "The problem is you're talking to two people. (...) As Charles Foster Kane, shareholder, I agree with you: Charles Foster Kane is a scoundrel. His newspaper should be closed. (...) Besides, I am the editor of The Inquirer. As such, it is my duty to ensure that the good workers of our community are not robbed by a bunch of profiteers." Finally, let's mention Rick (Humphrey Bogart) in Casablanca, whom Captain Renault (Claude Rains) suspects of being an idealist behind his cynical shell.

Does a trajectory protagonist necessarily experience an internal conflict? Often, they are not aware of their trajectory flaw. They are selfish, cowardly, childish, and nothing else, before becoming, after a series of trials, altruistic, courageous, or mature. But when one has a trajectory flaw, thus a lack, an unconscious part of oneself challenges and pushes us to grow. One can consider that the opposition of these two facets constitutes an internal conflict.

You don't have to burden one of your characters with an internal conflict. But you see that such a characteristic can enrich a character, in addition to adding a certain type of conflict to your story. To be stored in our toolbox and pondered.

The relationship with others  
A human being, real or fictional, does not exist in the absolute, immutable, regardless of the circumstances, regardless of the person they are facing. The character's relationship with others is an important trait of characterization.

Nina Leeds, in Strange Interlude, is a good example. She is not the same in front of the five men in her life: her father, her two husbands, her son, or her lover, and, moreover, she does not expect the same things from them. The 20th Cavalry also contains a remarkable example. Colonel McStraggle, who commands the fort, has a very specific relationship with his son who has the misfortune of serving under his command. He is stricter with him than with the other soldiers because he is terrified of favoritism. One cannot say that Colonel McStraggle is strict in the absolute; he is especially so with his son. This relationship thus teaches us two traits of the Colonel: a general trait—he is afraid of being caught in a fault—and a specific relational trait—he is strict with his son, to the point of injustice.

In your characterization work on paper, imagine your protagonist facing the important characters in their life.

Avoid unintentional sexism  
If you are a chauvinist and proud of it, this paragraph will shake you. Perhaps you'd prefer to skip directly to the next part. If, on the other hand, you advocate equality between girls and boys, as well as between women and men, then you should be interested in this section. Because an author can be sexist without realizing it. Even a woman can be chauvinistic. It is enough to reproduce the many patriarchal ideas that have circulated in all societies for a long time and can be acquired unconsciously, including by reading novels or going to the cinema, as storytelling is a powerful cultural vector. Thus, a majority of well-intentioned works of fiction convey subtle sexism. If only by the gender of the protagonist (very predominantly male).

In 1985, in the comic strip Dykes to Watch Out For, a female character explains that she only watches movies that meet the following criteria: 1 - there are two identified female characters, 2 - they have a dialogue scene, 3 - in which they do not talk about a man. Since 1985, these criteria have been known as the Bechdel-Wallace test, named after the author of the comic strip, Alison Bechdel, and a friend of hers, Liz Wallace, who gave her the idea to create a test based on this character's reflection. It is an interesting source of inspiration to avoid sexism in a work of fiction. But it's not the only one. You can also:

- Ask yourself, for each character, if they need to be male. The answer is more often negative than one might think;
- Avoid having only one important female role (the Smurfette syndrome). Distribute plenty of roles to women and not just those of the mother and the whore: judge, surgeon, astronaut, researcher, mechanic, etc.;
- Not have only female characters with a top model physique or/and a great and pure soul or/and surreal power;
- Not have only female characters under forty or over seventy. Between the roles of young lover and grandmother, many actresses notice a long tunnel in our Western cinema. As the actresses of the MFA (Actresses and Actors of France Associated) say, from the age of fifty, women acquire a superpower on screen: they are invisible! Is it because as they mature, many women gain strength and independence, and that scares many men?;
- Avoid female characters all serving the male protagonist;
- Avoid the helpless victim who serves as a support for the villain's (and the author's) sadism;
- Avoid clichés. Not all women are poor at DIY. Not all Native American women are wise and ecological. Not all women want to have children. Unfortunately, in this area, the list of clichés is long;
- Avoid treating rape like a cold. If you include a rape in your story, first question its absolute necessity. Then, if you maintain the rape, do not treat it lightly. Ask yourself how to show it. In fiction, some rapes show a guilty complacency. Finally, do not show a woman who is raped and then moves on. Rape always has painful and long-term consequences. In a particularly harsh episode of Outlander (episode 1.15), a man (Sam Heughan) is raped. The authors don't stop there. The repercussions of the rape are explored in subsequent episodes. I hope this accuracy is not due to the fact that the victim was a man.

If you feel concerned about this subject, you will find other advice on the internet. But, for me, the most important advice is this: create characters who are fighters. This also (and especially) applies to female characters who are not protagonists. Not necessarily strong, powerful, or sympathetic women—which is also good—just women who do not let themselves be confined to a status of victims or trophies, who steer their own course and fight, in their own way, with their means. I think this is the condition for creating beautiful female portraits and for telling our daughters: you can do it just as much as the boys.

1. The following works can also serve as inspiration: Lysistrata, One Thousand and One Nights, Donkey Skin, Tartuffe, A Doll's House, The Caucasian Chalk Circle, Pippi Longstocking, Eve, The Miracle Worker, Yoko Tsuno, Autumn Sonata, Victor Victoria, Steel Magnolias, Alice, The Thorn Birds, Thelma & Louise, The Story of Qiu Ju, Mulan, Not One Less, Sur mes lèvres, Desperate Housewives, Martha Jane Cannary, Tangled, Philomena, Happy Valley, Mustang. These are just a few titles. Everyone will extend this list as they see fit.

C. THE INCITING INCIDENT  
By definition, an inciting incident is an event that breaks a routine or balance and prompts a living organism to react. There are all sizes, major, local, semi-local, tiny. We will talk here about the big inciting incident, the one that will launch the action.

Two types of inciting incidents  
Inciting incidents can be classified into two main categories: those that do not depend at all on the future protagonist and those that depend, directly or indirectly, on the future protagonist. The first category concerns sudden chances, accidents, unexpected inheritances, etc. In the second category, I distinguish:

- The result (therefore the climax) of an action undertaken before: considerable lottery win, birth of a child, etc.;
- The trial sent by Heaven. The trial resembles an accident from nowhere but feels like this accident does not fall on the future protagonist by chance. It is thus a sudden chance but with a metaphorical function. When Phil Connors (Bill Murray) finds himself stuck in Punxsutawney reliving the same dreary day of his life indefinitely (Groundhog Day), he is the victim of a curse that will allow him to transform. From the start, we feel he deserves it, that it's "well done for him," as they say;
- The last straw that breaks the camel's back. Imagine a woman who believes she wears a rare perfume and feels a certain pride. She starts encountering other women with the same perfume. She holds back until one day, exasperated, she finally sets out to find a unique perfume for herself alone. What triggers this objective is the moment the vase overflows. Similarly, it's the accumulation of difficulties with his deaf and blind daughter that finally convinces Captain Keller to hire an educator (The Miracle Worker). The inciting incident of The Purple Rose of Cairo is the moment when one of the actors (Jeff Daniels) of the film Cecilia (Mia Farrow) is watching steps out of the screen and joins her in the theater. We understand he does it after seeing Cecilia several times. Here too, he has stuck psychological stamps until one day, unable to hold back, he decides to meet Cecilia.

I invite you to become aware of the category in which your inciting incident falls. Conversely, if you do not already know the inciting incident, you can start by asking yourself if you want it to be completely independent of the future protagonist or not. The meaning is obviously not the same. If, for example, the inciting incident is a car accident, the future protagonist can be the victim (cf. The Sucker) or responsible (21 Grams).

The different categories mentioned above can give the same objective with the same protagonist. Imagine that your protagonist's objective is to quit smoking. When one has an addiction, one does not wake up one morning deciding to quit. An event is needed to trigger this will. It can be an isolated event dependent on the future protagonist (an aortitis followed by medical advice), independent of the future protagonist (they witness a death due to tongue cancer), or it can be the last straw, the end of a psychological stamp collection. Every morning, the character wakes up coughing up their lungs. One day, they decide that's enough and resolve to quit.

Include the incident in your story?  
Another important topic of reflection: do you want the inciting incident to be part of the story? It's rare, but it happens that it is absent. That is, the inciting incident has occurred, in one of the four forms mentioned above, but before the start of the story. This generally requires you to refer to it in the first act. That said, the inciting incident being a powerful and precious dramatic knot, I advise you to include it in the story.

If you choose not to include it and if your protagonist already has their general objective from the beginning of the story, plan a few scenes before revealing the objective in question. In other words, include a first act. The second act will begin when the audience knows (consciously or unconsciously) what the protagonist's objective is. If you do not proceed this way, you risk that your protagonist's objective will not be perceived as the general objective of the action but as a routine objective. Because a story can very well start with your future protagonist having a strong objective. This is the case in The School for Wives. From the first scene, we understand that Arnolphe's objective is to marry Agnès. But it is not his objective to
second act. The same principle applies in Alien or Sunshine. From the start, the respective crews of these two films have an objective: to bring a cargo of ore back to Earth for one, to reignite the Sun for the other. After the inciting incident, a new objective is launched.

In Cyrano de Bergerac as in The Apartment, the inciting incident is not shown. When the story begins, the protagonist, Cyrano or Baxter (Jack Lemmon), has already met the love of his life (Roxane or Fran (Shirley MacLaine)), has already fallen in love, and already has the goal of being loved. But he hasn't taken action yet. He waits for the right opportunity to act: the arrival of Christian for Cyrano, a promotion for Baxter. This opportunity can be seen as a mini-integrated inciting incident. As if being loved was the goal of the first act and seducing the goal of the second. Or one might consider that, regarding the grand goal of seducing the beloved, the protagonist has set a first sub-goal: waiting for the right opportunity. In Baxter's case, the opportunity is even provoked by him.

A shock
Whatever its nature, the inciting incident is an event that forces the future protagonist to take action. Therefore, conceive the inciting incident as a shock. A death, an accident, an inheritance, a love at first sight are classic inciting incidents. This dramatic knot must be powerful enough to disrupt the life of your future protagonist and motivate them to embark on a long second act.

Multiple and manifold
Be careful not to have several independent inciting incidents. Any event, big or small, that is not routine can serve as an inciting incident. If, for example, the inciting incident is the opportunity for a broke couple to win a large sum of money, do not include a scene just before where the husband is fired (as in The Box). Because the firing is already an inciting incident. Instead, show that the couple has been struggling to make ends meet for some time. Another solution is to place the parasitic inciting incident before the story begins. There was indeed a firing, but it is part of the past. No matter if it's a recent past. Start the story after the firing and have the protagonist mention it at the right moment. A third solution is to link the two inciting incidents by a causal effect. Because the husband is fired and available, he is offered a large sum of money.

At the beginning of The Sting, Hooker (Robert Redford) and Luther (Robert Earl Jones) con a Doyle Lonnegan (Robert Shaw) employee. Lonnegan retaliates by killing Luther. Hooker decides to take revenge on Lonnegan. It is only at this point that we enter the second act. So, we have two inciting incidents: one for the antagonist (the initial con) and one for the protagonist (Luther's death). Fortunately, one is a consequence of the other.

Why don't two independent inciting incidents work? First, because you are only allowed one "accident" at the beginning of a story, one chance occurrence. Two accidents in a row resemble a coincidence. It feels like the author is arranging events. Second, because two independent inciting incidents should logically generate two independent objectives. Which makes for one objective too many. And if they generate the same objective, we return to the first point: too much coincidence, too much authorial convenience.

D. THE GENERAL OBJECTIVE
Logically, the objective must be the same as in the dramatic pitch. How many times, in workshops, have I seen a different objective in the foundations than what appeared in the pitch! I have already made this point above regarding characterization, and it applies, of course, to all elements of the pitch, but it is especially on the objective that I notice discrepancies. They can be due to carelessness. More often, they are the symptom of (still) uncertain thinking.

Action and result
The word "objective" has two meanings: the action itself and its result. When declaring their objective, a protagonist will rarely state what they aim for: "I want revenge," "I want a job contract," or "I want Noémie's love." They will rather say: "I want to get revenge," "I want to find a job," or "I want to seduce Noémie." Because they know that to achieve a result, one must first act. This is why examples of objectives are always action verbs: survive, take revenge, win, find, seduce, save, etc.

Often, when the protagonist declares their objective in terms of action, the audience understands what the objective in terms of result should be, that is, what the protagonist is aiming for. If a character does everything to be loved by another character, we have a pretty good idea of the moment that will prove they have achieved their objective. When Hamlet declares that he will avenge his father, we guess that this equates to obtaining Claudius's death. And if we are not sure, we do not doubt that we will be able to spot the moment when the protagonist has achieved their objective.

But when the result is not obvious, it is necessary to explain it to the audience. Take the example of a character whose general objective is to be a rock star. There are several ways to be a rock star, several criteria. Is it to release a first album? To sell it in more than x thousand copies? To sign a contract for five albums? To get four stars in a specialized magazine? To have at least three groupies at their doorstep every night? To be admitted into this or that microcosm? In It's a Wonderful Life (1946), George's (James Stewart) objective is to achieve great things. A bit vague. Quite quickly, we understand that he wants to build works of art. Ironically, he will never leave his hometown, but that will not prevent him from accomplishing great things on another level than the one he had in mind.

In short, if the objective embraces too many possibilities and you do not say more about the criteria your protagonist imagines, the audience embarks into the unknown. You must clarify the objective.

An inseparable trio
I remind you that there is very often a close link between the inciting incident, the characterization of the protagonist, and the objective (and even obstacles and climax). The respective protagonists of Ikiru, Haut les cœurs! and Breaking Bad have the same inciting incident: they are told they have cancer. But since they do not have the same characterization, it does not produce the same objective. The first (Takashi Shimura) stops working and fights to build a children's park downtown. The second (Karin Viard) wonders if she should keep the child she is carrying. The third (Bryan Cranston) starts manufacturing and selling drugs to secure his family's future.

Your pitch must convey this coherence. Too often, I read pitches in which I do not see a logical link between the inciting incident, protagonist, and objective.

How to find the general objective
If you cannot determine your protagonist's objective, to find a concrete formulation that encompasses your entire second act, there are two ways to find the objective. But, first of all, you must clearly distinguish between dramatic objective and trajectory objective (cf. pages 16-17 and chapter 5).

The first way to find the protagonist's general objective is to start from the central conflict. Imagine you extract the essence of your second act, what is the representative conflict? What does your protagonist struggle most to do? Answering these questions should help you determine their general objective. The second way is to start from the climax. Provided you know it, of course. Since the climax is contained in the germ of the objective declaration and is the protagonist's ultimate attempt to achieve said objective, it necessarily gives a good idea of the latter. If I show you only the climax of Raiders of the Lost Ark or Cyrano de Bergerac, assuming you know nothing else, there is no doubt that you will guess what the protagonist's objective was. Do the same with your story if you know the climax.

A way to be original
Even if loving, taking revenge, saving the world, keeping a secret, finding someone are omnipresent objectives in the repertoire, you can imagine a rarer objective. Finding a different objective is one of the ways you have to create an atypical work. Of course, once again, the objective will also depend on the characterization of the protagonist and their inciting incident.

Not only is an uncommon objective a way to inject some originality into your story, but it will never prevent you from making a noble work, contrary to what some claim. To be convinced, just look at the loads of flops produced with the noble objective of saving the world. Getting apologies, asserting revolutionary theories, teaching a teenager to communicate, escaping social and emotional misery, can give magnificent works (The Story of Qiu Ju, Life of Galileo, The Miracle Worker, Read My Lips). I have already discussed this in chapter 4.

What if the protagonist has two antagonistic objectives?
Whether your protagonist starts with an internal conflict or not (cf. above), they may quickly find themselves with two antagonistic objectives of equal intensity. They want love but also money. They want to become better but also harm someone. They want to have a career and, at the same time, be a good father to their children. Their heart swings between two people. Etc. If you treat both objectives on the same level, the audience will be divided, they will not know what you are telling, and it will be uncomfortable.

A solution is to make one of the two objectives an obstacle for the other. But be careful, the choice is not indifferent. Because, depending on whether you choose one or the other, it does not give the same story. Let's take the example of love versus money. Imagine, in the first case, a character who seeks to seduce someone and is hindered by their greed. You have one type of story. Now imagine a character who seeks to make money but the love in their heart puts obstacles in their way. You see that with the same internal antagonism, we can obtain two different story directions.

A complementary solution is to make one of the objectives conscious, and the other unconscious. In this case, it is best to take as the conscious objective the one that will fail and as the unconscious objective the one that will succeed. Why? I would like to say that it is because our unconscious often knows better what is good for us, but the real reason is that the unconscious is powerful. It seems more credible to me that it is the one that prevails.

The unconscious objective can be treated as a trajectory objective but not necessarily. In The Toy, Perrin (Pierre Richard) has the conscious objective of making a film and the unconscious objective of regaining his fiancée's love (Miou-Miou). The two objectives clearly oppose each other because the film that the romantic Perrin is shooting is a pornographic film whose production distances him from his partner. However, Perrin's unconscious objective is not a transformation objective. It is just an antagonist objective to his dramatic objective.

Treating an objective as an obstacle is also useful if you tend to give too many objectives to your protagonist and create subplots for them. I have seen this process in authors who are afraid of not filling their second act. They give their protagonist plenty of actions to accomplish, to the detriment of the unity of action. The solution is to keep one and only one general objective and treat all other objectives as obstacles. Imagine, for example, a salesperson who has a bad habit of alienating customers. His boss gives him one last chance: the protagonist has three months to calm down and prove himself. Otherwise, he will be shown the door. Here is an objective that is enough to fill a second act. You do not need, in addition, to add a divorce for the protagonist to manage, parents moving, a teenage daughter running away, neighbors filing a lawsuit, etc. Unless you turn these actions into obstacles for the first objective. The divorce, the parents, the daughter, the neighbors can occupy the protagonist, push him to the limit, and thus prevent him from proving himself at work.

The essential conditions
I remind you that it is not enough to give your protagonist a unique general objective. Your task will also consist of:
- making this objective known (or understood or felt) to the audience (cf. "First act-second act transition" below);
- motivating the objective (cf. "Stakes" and "Motivations" below);
- making the objective difficult to achieve (cf. "Obstacles" below);
- endowing your protagonist with a fierce determination to achieve their objective.

Legitimate and illegitimate dramatic objective
There is a type of story, quite common, in which the audience feels, from the start, that the dramatic objective is not legitimate and that a positive dramatic response is not desirable. We therefore hope that the protagonist will fail but not only that. We also hope that they will learn a lesson from it. From the beginning of the second act of Casablanca, we hope that Rick (Humphrey Bogart) will not manage to remain neutral and thus will overcome his selfishness. From the beginning of the internal second act of Citizen Kane, we feel that Kane (Orson Welles) will not manage to do as he pleases and we hope that he will grow from this failure. Same for Perrin (The Toy), above, with his porn film. We do not wish for him to succeed and hope he will find his girlfriend again.

This means that you can very well give your protagonist an illegitimate dramatic objective. This type of story works. But when you determine your protagonist's dramatic objective, it is imperative that you are aware of the effect this objective will have on the audience: hope or disapproval. Basically, this comes down to knowing whether you give your protagonist reason or not to have such or such objective.

E. THE STAKES
The stakes, a powerful factor of identification, are what the protagonist has to lose or gain at the end of the action. Nine times out of ten, whether in life or in fiction writing, people confuse stakes with the objective. And this for a simple reason: the expression "The stakes" has become synonymous with "The most important" or "What counts." "The stakes are to save the planet." "The stakes are to win the next match." "The stakes," explained this firefighter in a TV report, "are to stop the forest fire before it reaches the house." He was actually talking about the objective. The stakes, in this case, were the house itself. When you make a bet, the stakes are not to win the bet, the stakes are precisely what you put at stake: money, a good meal at a restaurant, etc. In these examples, the confusion between stakes and objective is relatively harmless. But sometimes it costs dearly.

Confusing stakes with motivation or stakes with objective is indeed the best way to get confused, to deprive oneself of reflection on the stakes (the real ones) and to miss the mark. In The Finishers, a fifty-year-old (Jacques Gamblin) agrees to run an Ironman triathlon carrying his paraplegic son (Fabien Héraud) during the race. If you define the stakes as having to finish the race on time, you might think you have an exciting action. For the protagonist, finishing an Ironman under these conditions is an extremely difficult objective to achieve. But the stakes are not the objective. In the specific case of this story, the stakes are identified by answering the following question: "What does the protagonist lose if he does not finish the race or does not finish it on time?" And, unfortunately for the interest of the film, the answer is: nothing. Because, even before the start of the race, the protagonist has already gained the essential - in this case, he has already regained his son's affection. Note that the answer could not be null. By running this Ironman, the father could lose his self-esteem or the new relationship he has with his son or serenity (versus guilt). But these stakes are not exploited in the film. The authors should have conducted a reflection on the stakes instead of believing they were safe because their protagonist had a difficult objective to achieve.

The stakes can therefore be life, survival, health (physical or mental), a child, a family, a job, power, a seat, a career, a sum of money, a property, rights, the future, supremacy, credibility, honor, reputation, dignity, freedom, appearances, a relationship, a friendship, balance, well-being, peace of mind (versus fear or guilt), etc.

Be aware of your protagonist's stakes. And, if possible, do everything to increase the stakes. If, for example, you want to tell the story of a Russian conductor who is hired to conduct a concert and who requests that the soloist be a young woman he has lost touch with but with whom he has family ties, do not do like the authors of The Concert who first make us believe that the soloist in question (Mélanie Laurent) is the conductor's daughter (Aleksey Guskov) to later reveal that she is only the daughter of a friend of the conductor. If the conductor is indeed the father of the soloist, there are more stakes for everyone, the father, the daughter, and the audience. This simply makes the story stronger, more exciting, and... more meaningful.

Conflicts without stakes
Is a dynamic conflict necessarily underpinned by stakes? It is tempting to think so. It seems logical that a living organism undertaking a difficult action necessarily has something to lose or gain in the operation. And yet, some conflicts give the impression of the opposite. This is the case with routine conflicts like psychological games. A violent couple's argument, for example, identical to yesterday's argument and tomorrow's, serves more to maintain a toxic balance than to allow one of the two parties to escape it. And since this is unfortunately often effective, the stakes perceived by the audience are low.

There are also few stakes in investigation stories. Not because they lack conflict. One can even imagine a very difficult investigation, at the end of which the investigator fails. But because the investigator often has little to gain or lose in the operation. Even their pride can come out unscathed. An investigator knows that their success rate cannot be 100%. In investigation stories, there is often a strong stake for the victim's relatives. Unfortunately, they are rarely the protagonists. The first season of Broadchurch is eloquent on this subject. At the beginning of the series, I identify with the mother of the murdered child. She is devastated, and I share her pain. Thanks to Jodie Whittaker, who plays the mother superbly and has two or three poignant scenes. What interests me then is not knowing who killed. The resolution of the mystery does not excite me. I want justice to be done. And above all, for the mother to grieve, find peace. This feeling is slightly reinforced by the fact that, as long as the culprit is not caught, the child cannot be buried. Unfortunately, the mother is not the protagonist. As the series progresses, her character fades in favor of a classic investigation.

Another case. Imagine an individual whose objective is to find a job and who goes through a job interview. It does not go smoothly. The recruiter asks embarrassing questions, casts doubts on their CV, etc. On their side, the protagonist defends themselves, argues, shows their motivation. In short, there is a nice balanced dynamic conflict. And there is clearly a stake: a job. Is that enough? Perhaps not. If the author forgot to make us understand how important this job is, if we do not feel the protagonist's despair, the last chance aspect, the scene will seem to lack stakes. All this to say that conflict may not suffice. Sometimes the stakes need to be made explicit.

In summary, if there is conflict, there are necessarily stakes for the characters experiencing the conflict but not necessarily in sufficient quantity and not necessarily for the audience. It should be noted that the reverse is also possible: a lot of stakes but little conflict. For this, it is enough to motivate an objective well and then forget to put obstacles.

Staging the stakes
Often, the stakes are quite clear in the scenes that present the life routine, the inciting incident, and the protagonist's objective. But not always. It may be a good idea to think about creating a stakes scene. This is one of the functions of the first scene of Where Is the Friend's Home?. Among other things, the teacher (Kheda Barech Defai) reminds his students that homework must be done in a notebook under penalty of expulsion. This scene serves to motivate Ahmad's (Babak Ahmadpoor) future objective: to return his friend's lost notebook. The protagonist could lose a friend, who could outright lose his schooling.

The action of Lagaan is set in India in 1893. Peasants come to ask the local raja (Kulbhushan Kharbanda) to exempt them from taxes ("lagaan" in Hindi) for the coming year, due to the drought that has devastated their lands. The raja refuses because he is tied hand and foot to the English. They, under the authority of a certain Russell (Paul Blackthorne), then make a proposal. If the peasants beat them at cricket, there will be no tax for two years. However, if they lose, they will have to pay triple. Bhuvan (Aamir Khan), the young peasant leader, hesitates to take up the challenge. Russell raises the stakes: no tax for three years throughout the province if the Indians win. Bhuvan accepts. Then the film's authors offer a second scene, in which Bhuvan defends his position to his entire village and reminds them of the importance of the stakes. Finally, a little later, it is Russell who must explain himself to his superiors, as they find the bet scandalous. It is decided that if Russell wins, nothing more will be said. If he loses, he will have to pay the tax out of his own pocket and will be transferred to Africa. Needless to say, after these three scenes, everything is clear.
What follows is highly suspenseful. Note that the authors don't just support the protagonists' motivations; they also do so with the character who creates obstacles. The same approach is used in The Bridge on the River Kwai, where the main opponent, Colonel Saito (Sessue Hayakawa), has strong motivations: if the bridge he's having built by his prisoners isn't finished on time, he has no choice but to commit suicide.

Reflecting on the stakes always seems necessary to me, even with classic objectives where the stakes are implicit. We all need love, work, security, yet finding love, a job, or security can be more important for some than for others. In A Time for Drunken Horses, Ayoub (Ayoub Ahmadi) seeks to earn money. His harsh survival conditions in Iranian Kurdistan are enough to legitimize his goal. But Bahman Ghobadi strengthens his protagonist's motivation: Ayoub wants to pay for an operation for his deformed and sick brother (Madi Ekhtiar-dini). If Ayoub doesn't find money, his brother will die very soon. In short, in the "Stakes" entry of your foundations, make it clear, in one way or another, how important it is for the protagonist to achieve his goal. Go beyond knowing what your protagonist has to lose or gain; ask yourself what he will experience and do if he fails. "He loses his honor" is too vague. Imagine the consequences.

Unconscious dramatic stakes and trajectory stakes

I just talked about dramatic stakes. This is what motivates the dramatic goal. These stakes can very well be conscious. This is the case in the examples of Lagaan and A Time for Drunken Horses above. The protagonists are fully aware of what they can gain or lose in the operation. This is also the case in The Merchant of Venice. Antonio is quite aware that he could lose a pound of his flesh. But sometimes the stakes are not as clearly conscious for the protagonist. When the stakes are immaterial (freedom, honor, friendship, etc.), they can motivate the protagonist without him realizing it.

Be careful, just because the dramatic stakes can be unconscious doesn't mean they should be confused with what might be called "trajectory stakes." These stakes, conscious or unconscious, motivate the dramatic goal. And the trajectory stakes, necessarily unconscious, will motivate the trajectory goal. Just as all trajectory goals could be summarized as growing or awakening, all trajectory stakes could be summarized as a part of humanity. It is indeed a facet of his humanity that a trajectory protagonist has to lose or gain in his possible transformation. I believe that the trajectory stakes are always evident to the audience. This is not the case with the dramatic stakes, which are discussed in this chapter and which I invite you to mature.

Stakes for other characters

Stories in which the protagonist is a witness, not an actor, of conflicts with strong stakes often fall into a trap because, although the protagonist makes it a personal matter, it is not he who has the most to gain or lose, but other characters. I see this problem in works like The Visitor, Welcome, Call the Midwife, Goya's Ghosts, Intimate Enemies, The Year My Parents Went on Vacation. These works are sometimes appreciated because they denounce humiliations or scandalous living conditions. But, in my opinion, humanism is not enough to make a story captivating. Once you've found your intention (see chapter 2), eliciting emotional and not just intellectual identification from the audience is greatly beneficial.

First act stakes

The stakes I just mentioned are second act stakes. Sometimes the author makes us understand how much it costs his character to set a particular goal. In other words, the author stages a first act stake. Imagine, for example, an extremely home-loving character. Something happens that urges him to leave his slippers. You feel that the character is torn. Finally, he decides to go on an adventure. You can understand that it costs him to adopt such a goal. In this case, he must sacrifice his little comfort and tranquility. This is a first act stake. That said, once the second act has begun, you can't keep reminding us that your protagonist embarked on the action reluctantly or that he lost a lot by setting a goal. The first act stake can therefore be interesting to show the protagonist's motivations or characterization. In no way can it replace the second act stake.

Characters other than the protagonist

A good part of the work of characterizing secondary characters is identical to that concerning the protagonist. We have seen that the choice of protagonist is not arbitrary. It is made according to the meaning you want to give to your story. The same should apply to other characters who must all serve the action in one way or another. A beautiful character that pleases you but serves no real purpose must be ruthlessly eliminated (and carefully preserved for another work).

Create useful secondary characters, either because they logically belong to the protagonist's universe, because they advance the action (obstacle or aid), or because they combine the theme. In particular, imagine which characters will push your protagonist the most to his limits, make him choose, and reveal his theme. Try to have the equivalent of Stanley Kowalski in A Streetcar Named Desire. Through his primitive strength, authenticity, suspicions, and intransigence, Stanley twists the knife in Blanche's wound, the protagonist.

In The Journey of Mr. Perrichon, there is a debtor character whose purpose may seem unclear at first glance. It is Majorin, a bitter type who borrows 600 francs from Perrichon while hating him. In fact, it's a thematic subplot that mirrors Perrichon's. Majorin can't stand being a debtor. Just like Perrichon, who prefers to serve than to receive a service. Moreover, at the end, when Majorin returns the 600 francs, Perrichon—who has understood and changed—says: "And to think I was like him." The little Perrichon-Majorin subplot thus serves to enrich the theme and create contrast.

The importance of the goal

"I will fight to keep my little job," says Krogstad, the main opponent in A Doll's House, "as if it were a matter of life or death." The goal, stakes, and motivations are important elements of characterization. Generally, the question doesn't arise for the protagonist, who necessarily carries a general goal. This is not the case for secondary characters and, even worse, tertiary characters. Too often, secondary characters hang around without a determined purpose, and their utilitarian side is glaring.

Give a goal, conscious or unconscious, to all your secondary characters (see chapter 1). It's the best way to give them existence. Not only must a secondary character have a goal, but unlike the protagonist, he has the right to have several during the action. That said, if you give a secondary character a single general goal, you have a better chance of making him identifiable and even credible. The fact that he is allowed several goals does not authorize you to make him flit about. Always unlike the protagonist, a secondary character has the right not to have obstacles on the road to his goal(s). It's even advisable since the more conflict you make a secondary character experience, the more he risks overshadowing the protagonist.

John Truby [83] cites the example of Dorothy's companions (Judy Garland) in The Wizard of Oz. The lion (Bert Lahr) would like to have courage. The scarecrow (Ray Bolger) would like to possess a brain. And the tin man (Jack Haley) desires a heart. In reality, these three characters have more of a conscious dramatic need than a true goal. Because they do nothing to achieve their respective goals. In a way, their main character trait is wishfulness, softness. In short, not only must you give one or more goals to your secondary characters, but you must also make them active to make them exist.

In my opinion, the only two three-dimensional female characters in all of Francis Veber's work are Christine (Miou-Miou) in We Will All Be Famous and Christine (Anny Duperey) in The ComDads. It's no coincidence that they both have a strong goal that they do everything to achieve. They are fighters (see above). In We Will All Be Famous, Christine seeks to discourage her fiancé (Pierre Richard) from making a pornographic film because she thinks he's getting lost in it. She is present throughout the second act, and those who know the film know she doesn't spare her efforts. In The ComDads, Christine is the protagonist of the first act. She wants to find her runaway son (Stéphane Bierry), travels to Nice to investigate, and doesn't hesitate, to achieve her goal, to manipulate two former friends (Pierre Richard, Gérard Depardieu) by telling each that he is the father.

A matter of coherence

The characters in a story have their own lives, whose history you must know (see chapter 1). This is true for all your characters, including the most secondary ones. Even if you don't tell your story in order, even if you show only a few elements of this or that secondary character, even if you have a unique omnipresent protagonist and don't make a choral work, even if you hide certain narrative elements from the audience, as an author, you must know where all your characters come from, what their inciting incidents are, their goals, and their motivations. Without you necessarily realizing it, this will give truth and credibility to your characters and coherence to your story. Not to mention that it will greatly help the actors who will have to embody these characters.

False ally and false adversary

John Truby [83] mentions two types of characters that deserve attention: the false ally and the false adversary. The false ally is a character who starts by helping the protagonist and turns out to be a source of obstacles. The false adversary is the opposite character.

Be careful, in both cases, you must play the surprise card (for the audience as well as for the protagonist) rather than that of mystery or dramatic irony; otherwise, the adjective "false" is not justified. Thus, unlike Truby, I don't think Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are false allies in Hamlet. Because we know from the start that they are spying for Claudius. For the audience, they are immediately perceived as sources of obstacles. And even for Hamlet, who quickly sees through their game. On the other hand, Mrs. Linde is a nice false ally in A Doll's House. The same goes for the Nurse in Romeo and Juliet. Or the mayor (Thomas Mitchell) in High Noon, who receives an ironic "Thank you!" from the protagonist (Gary Cooper). Stella, Blanche's sister, is a local false ally in scene 4 of A Streetcar Named Desire.

Note that the least interesting false ally is the traitor. A beautiful false ally is a character who creates obstacles for the protagonist not because he turns his coat (out of venality, revenge, or perversion) but because his personal interests lead him to stray from the protagonist's path and hinder him.

For obvious reasons, the false adversary is more delicate to handle than the false ally. Because the false adversary ends up transforming into an aid. You must therefore justify it. This is what, for example, the authors of The Man Who Knew Too Much do with Mrs. Drayton (Brenda De Banzie). Or Hergé with Wolff in Explorers on the Moon or the authors of Tangled with the horse Maximus. But if you don't do preparatory work, you risk creating the same kind of disappointment as that produced by Colonel Landa (Christoph Waltz), the Jewish hunter in Inglourious Basterds. For much of the film, he embodies a magnificent villain, calm, smiling, and ruthless. And then when he has one of the protagonists (Brad Pitt) at his mercy, he turns his coat. Surprise, certainly, but deus ex machina. If you have to choose, it's better for the false adversary to be less surprising but more logical.

The Harry Potter series, which is full of false allies and false adversaries, offers over its entire duration a very beautiful false adversary. I won't say more for those who don't know, but know that he generates obstacles, that the revelation of his role is well brought, that everything contributes to making this false adversary particularly successful, up to the actor who plays him in the film adaptation.

Don't confuse the false ally with the temporary ally. In The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, Blondie (Clint Eastwood) travels a bit with Tuco (Eli Wallach) and then with Angel Eyes (Lee Van Cleef) because it's in his interest at the moment. But he knows that at the end of the road, they will become adversaries again. In these cases where one of the characters acts as a circumstantial co-protagonist, there is no surprise.

One of the reasons why Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) is such a fascinating character in The Silence of the Lambs is that he is both an ally and an adversary. He helps Clarice (Jodie Foster) find the serial killer she's looking for, and at the same time, he puts her in a bind since he takes the opportunity to escape. He should also put her in danger when she starts revealing intimate elements about herself, but this announcement is unfortunately not exploited (see explanations in Dramaturgy [51]). That said, we can't say that Hannibal Lecter is a false ally or a false adversary. Because the protagonist and the audience are warned from the start of the role he is supposed to play. The same goes for Gustavo Fring (Giancarlo Esposito) in Breaking Bad. He is both an ally and an adversary of the protagonist, but there is no surprise. The adjective "false" does not apply to him either.

An adult vision of humanity

All characters who reveal themselves to be something other than unwavering support or persistent opposition for the protagonist will help you give an adult dimension to your story. Whether in life or fiction, we like to adore or hate. It's so comfortable. Individuals who have great qualities but also major flaws are often embarrassing. What to think of them? In which box to put them? How to love someone who has such big flaws? Yes, but how to hate someone who still has such beautiful qualities? Have you noticed that when a dear friend plays a dirty trick on you, it's more comfortable to break ties completely than to continue seeing them? In short, we often adopt a Manichean attitude towards others, similar to that of a 4-year-old child towards fairy tale characters. Creating nuanced characters who do both good and evil is like giving an adult image of reality.

Duos and trios

Main or secondary characters sometimes come in pairs or trios. If you adopt this formula, especially take the opportunity to characterize them differently. Don't do like the authors of The Sons of the Desert or Three Men and a Cradle. Do rather like the author of The ComDads or No Exit.

If the main opponent is a trio, take advantage of it to make two similar characters and one different. This third element can even turn out to be a false adversary. Giving the same characterization to three antagonistic secondary characters is unnecessary; two are enough. Symbolically, it even makes much more sense when the opponents form a duo of twins (see Lady and the Tramp, Desire Under the Elms, or King Lear).

The case of the four Dalton Cousins in Lucky Luke deserves comment. From a narrative point of view, three bandits would have sufficed, but the real Dalton Brothers were four—five, in truth, but only four became criminals. Morris therefore respected his historical sources in Outlaws. It is interesting to note that the Dalton Cousins are four but have the characterization of a trio: Joe is the most vicious and clever, William and Jack are almost identical followers, while Averell is deeply gluttonous and stupid.

Character and amalgam

In real life, if you are robbed one day by an individual belonging to a visible minority, you will tend to fear most men of the same type afterward, without distinction. It's unfair and irrational, but that's how the human brain works. It's an animal protection. This kind of amalgam also operates in fiction. The characters in a story are often perceived by the audience as archetypes (not in the Jungian sense of the term, rather in the sense of prototypes). Again, it's unfortunate, but you must take it into account. If, for example, the only villain in a story is homosexual, the audience will interpret it as the author's point of view: "Homosexuals are all villains, and even, all villains are homosexuals." This is how the controversy around Basic Instinct arose, in which the criminal is bisexual. You must be aware of this phenomenon and be cautious. In any case, at a minimum, make your characterization match your thoughts and values. Which brings us back to the statements in chapter 2.

On the number of characters

I invite you not to include too many characters unless it's the subject of the work. If, in literature, one can say that the great basic story is a human being facing himself, in dramaturgy, two human beings facing each other are both necessary and sufficient. One can tell The Stranger in literature or comics. In theater or cinema, it's more difficult. Moreover, the very rare theatrical or cinematic works with a single character still have dialogues. The interlocutor can be on the phone (The Human Voice) or in the audience (The Double Bass). When Chuck (Tom Hanks), in Cast Away, finds himself on a deserted island, he creates an imaginary companion using a volleyball. In Jeremiah Johnson, the protagonist (Robert Redford) goes to live alone in the Rocky Mountains. Apart from a sequence in the middle of the story where he settles with a Native American woman (Delle Bolton) and a boy (Josh Albee), we understand through the use of ellipses that solitude is his daily lot. Nevertheless, not five minutes of film go by without him encountering a Native American, a trapper, a soldier, or a settler, and exchanging with them.

In 1928, Murnau [58] declared: "One of my dreams is to make a film in a single room (...) there would be nothing to distract us from the drama taking place between a handful of human beings." When we read these words, we think of Strindberg (Miss Julie, The Father, etc.) or his spiritual son: Bergman (Scenes from a Marriage, The Silence, Persona, Autumn Sonata, etc.). But they are not the only ones. Works in which two humans face each other are numerous, varied, and quite often successful: Antigone, Kiss of the Spider Woman, The Bidochon, Célimène and the Cardinal, The Cat, The Navigator's Cruise, The Odd Couple, A Strange Place to Meet, Duel, Hell in the Pacific, The Odd Job, Green Card, Strangers on a Train, Sleuth, Misery, The Bread of Friendship, For No Good Reason, Rain Man, The African Queen, The Savage, The Sun Above the Clouds, A Special Day, Planes, Trains and Automobiles, etc.

With two human beings, sitting across from each other, in a hotel room or a restaurant, there is plenty to write a beautiful two-hour work. But it's not easy to exploit a situation, to do milking, and since most authors are afraid to face this difficulty, they add characters, sets, tricks, and gadgets. Better to have few well-exploited characters than a parade of silhouettes.

Motivations, sub-goals, and means

After "Where were you on the night of the crime?" and "You have a choice," the third most present dialogue in the repertoire is probably "Why...?" : "Why are you asking me that?", "Why didn't you tell me anything?"... "Why are you chasing me?" Frank (Henry Fonda) essentially asks Harmonica (Charles Bronson) at the end of Once Upon a Time in the West. I'm not sure that fiction aims to teach us to clarify mysteries or to prove that free will exists. However, I think one of the essential goals of fiction is to allow us to discover the backstage of the human psyche. And this is undoubtedly one of the reasons why works whose outcome we know still manage to arouse interest. Certainly, we know that Joan of Arc ended up at the stake, but we want to know why and how. Yes, we know that So-and-So ended up killing his wife and children, but we want to understand his motivations. This is why The Program disappointed me. I knew Lance Armstrong had doped. I wanted to understand his motivations. Why does he embark on this organized fraud? What pleasure, what pride can he derive from winning races by cheating? How can one look in the mirror when reaching that point? Unfortunately, the film doesn't answer these questions. It's just a cold sequence of facts.

In every story, there are several levels of goals. There is first what could be called level zero. It's the protagonist's general goal, the one that defines the second act, thus the action. Oedipal's general goal is to find Laius's murderer (Oedipus Rex). Indiana Jones's general goal is to retrieve the Ark of the Covenant (The Adventures of Indiana Jones).
The Raiders of the Lost Ark. Cyrano's general objective is to woo Roxane (Cyrano de Bergerac).

Upstream of this general objective are higher-level objectives that can be described as motivations. Conscious motivations and, if we dig deeper, unconscious motivations. Oedipal is motivated by the pain of his people suffering from the plague. More profoundly, he needs to discover his true identity. Indiana Jones obeys the government that has given him a mission. But he is also motivated by adventure. He is addicted to the adrenaline that treasure hunts provide. Cyrano wants to be loved. He would also like to forget the nose that burdens him, to be loved for his soul and nothing else. In other words, he would like to no longer be tormented by this complex, to finally have peace of heart. You will note that all these motivations are emotional. Whether in life or fiction, humans sometimes explain their motivations. Most often, it is rationalization. If you give intellectual motivations to a character, make sure that emotional motivations are felt behind them.

Downstream of the general objective, we find sub-objectives and sub-sub-objectives. One of Oedipal's sub-objectives is to obtain insight from Tiresias. A sub-objective of Indiana Jones is to retrieve a medallion that will allow him to precisely locate the Ark. A sub-objective of this sub-objective is to prevent the evil Nazi (Ronald Lacey) from torturing Marion (Karen Allen). Cyrano's general sub-objective is to use Christian, and one of his sub-sub-objectives is to write letters on Christian's behalf.

As we can see, the objective unfolds like a set of Russian dolls, with the general dramatic objective as the intermediate doll. We return, once again, to the fractal principle.

This reflection on the different levels of objective can be useful. Because sometimes an author confuses the general objective with its motivation. This can lead to having a general objective that is too vague, not specific enough, or not respecting the unity of action. Regarding this last point, you know that the general objective must be unique. It is one of the essential factors of the unity of action. It is equally important that uniqueness applies to the protagonist's conscious motivation. Two different conscious motivations risk giving a whimsical image of the protagonist and damaging identification.

What is the difference between stakes and motivation? A stake always serves as motivation. The stakes in The Old Lady's Money are Peppino's (Alberto Sordi) financial comfort, his children's education, his daughter's health (Antonella Di Maggio), and his sister's safety (Luciana Lehar). These stakes strongly motivate Peppino to earn money against the old billionaire (Bette Davis). However, a motivation is not always a stake. A character can be motivated by an emotion or a super-objective (see above). In The Sting, Hooker (Robert Redford) wants to take revenge on Lonnegan (Robert Shaw) who had his partner killed. He is motivated by anger. A super-objective of Phil Connors in Groundhog Day is probably to return to his well-armored life in Pittsburgh and no longer have to deal with these "hicks." Of course, there is always a link between stake, emotion, and super-objective.

The reasonable contradictor of the dramatic protagonist

The protagonist's motivation contributes to characterizing him and always influences the spectator's empathy. If a character's objective is to rob a bank to pay for a bone marrow transplant for his little sister, he will not be perceived the same way as if his objective is to rob a bank to buy drugs.

That said, you can give questionable motivations to your protagonist and make us understand that you disapprove of his objective. A protagonist has the right to go astray, to have a wrong objective. We talked about this earlier. In this case, I suggest creating a character who thinks like the spectator. This is the role of Kent/Caius in King Lear, Sganarelle in Don Juan, M. Jourdain in The Bourgeois Gentleman, Christine (Miou-Miou) in We Will Have Seen Everything (see page 157), Sally in The Nightmare Before Christmas, or more discreetly, Sam (Dooley Wilson) and Carl (S.Z. Sakall), the two confidant employees of Rick (Humphrey Bogart) in Casablanca. The principle is the same as for the contradictor of a trajectorial protagonist (see pages 192-193). Creating a reasonable character in relation to the protagonist has several advantages:
1 - it facilitates the spectator's adherence who does not think that the author approves of a protagonist with questionable motivations;
2 - it is an exploitation of dramatic irony, diffuse or frank;
3 - it allows explaining the protagonist's motivations.

In general, an intellectual (but not emotional) identification is created with a disapproving character: we feel sympathy and understanding for him, but rarely empathy since he is not the protagonist and experiences little conflict.

Specific sub-objectives for an active protagonist

The reflection on sub-objectives forces you to make your protagonist active, thus avoiding a classic trap, that of the passive protagonist. Because it is not enough for a protagonist to have a great objective, he must also desperately seek to achieve it. He must be active or reactive. With conflict and stakes, the protagonist's determination is a powerful factor of identification.

The choice of sub-objectives also depends on the characterization of the protagonist. Faced with conflict, some choose flight, others confrontation. Others still choose manipulation. A protagonist can choose an inappropriate sub-objective at first, realize it during the story, and change tactics.

Collateral sub-objectives

Think of a type of sub-objectives that are a bit special: those that do not directly depend on the general objective but are consequences of the action undertaken by the protagonist. Often, when a character starts an action, he sets an entire universe in motion, breaking certain balances. He must then manage not only his original objective but also what he has set up or disrupted. This adds obligations to him. In adventure films, for example, the protagonist may have the general objective of finding a treasure or a missing person. Very quickly, he has the collateral sub-objective of saving his life. In many comedies, the protagonist has the collateral sub-objective of hiding something from other characters.

H. THE FIRST ACT-SECOND ACT TRANSITION

The first act-second act transition is the moment when the action begins. It is generally at this moment that the protagonist's objective is known or perceived by the spectator.

When there is a declaration of objective, the first act-second act transition often follows immediately. In Hamlet, Hamlet clearly says: "Only your command (N.B. to avenge myself) will live in the book of my memory" (1/5). Then he makes Horatio and Marcellus swear to say nothing and begins to feign madness. Hamlet has just taken action. In Pygmalion, Higgins says: "I will make a duchess out of this street urchin." Immediately, he orders Mrs. Pearce to wash Eliza. In The Great Escape, the Allied leader (Richard Attenborough) gathers all the camp leaders and launches his grand project: to make two hundred and fifty prisoners escape. We even have a declaration of sub-objectives: build three tunnels, dig to such a depth, pretend to garden, prepare papers and travel documents, etc. Immediately, the co-protagonists get started. Two of them place an order with the scrounger (James Garner).

Sometimes, the protagonist does not clearly declare his objective, but the spectator understands it unambiguously. In Tootsie, an artistic agent (Sydney Pollack) explains to Michael (Dustin Hoffman) that he has become unmanageable as an actor and that no one wants to work with him anymore, neither on Broadway nor in Hollywood. In the next shot, we discover Michael disguised as a woman in the streets of New York. There is no doubt for the spectator that the second act has just begun. Note, in this example, that the objective is actually declared by the agent but in the negative: "No one will hire you."

The first act-second act transition is a dramatic knot too often neglected by authors, even though it is an extraordinary tool for audience participation. This moment is always felt as a trigger in the spectator's unconscious who says to himself: "Ah, there it is, it's started." The declaration of objective, explicit or implicit, is nothing less than the greatest preparation of an entire story - the greatest payoff being the climax. When an objective is declared, a dramatic question is automatically created in the spectator's mind. Suspense is launched. It is absurd and even a mistake to deprive oneself of a declaration of objective or a scene of transition from the first act to the second act. This will strengthen your story and... the audience's participation.

I. THE ARENA

We talked about it in chapter 4, the pitch often contains the arena. It is the environment in which the protagonist will evolve during the second act. But it cannot just be a setting intended to be pretty or original. It must be an omnipresent and above all meaningful setting. In short, the arena is a specific universe (place + time) that tells something.

Attention, the arena that counts is the one in which the protagonist will live the action, therefore the one of the second act. It is not necessarily the environment of his routine life. In Time After Time, H.G. Wells (Malcolm McDowell) lives in 19th-century England. But the film's arena is 1979 San Francisco. In some action films, the first act's arena is the training camp, and the second act's arena is the field of operations.

If your protagonist moves from an office today to a living room, from a living room to a street, from a street to a restaurant, from a restaurant to an office, you do not have a spectacular arena. Yet, it is worth thinking about. Even if your arena is mundane, you cannot tell a story that takes place in any office, any street, any restaurant. Your arena must be specific. This will give unity to the work, a personality to the story, and preparation elements to pay off. In short, it will add meaning and connection to your story. The arena also allows:
- to create contrast. In Jaws, the shark's arena, the open sea, echoes that of humans, the seaside resort;
- to add a symbolic dimension. King Kong also has two arenas that respond to each other: the wild jungle of Skull Island and the urban jungle of New York;
- to make the subject original. This joins the sometimes documentary or even spectacular dimension of the arena. In the TV series City of Men, the arena is both a place (a poor and violent favela) and a way of life, exotic and frightening for spectators who are lucky enough to live in comfort. Some theater or opera directors stage classics by changing the arena. Macbeth will thus leave his medieval Scotland to land in the contemporary office of a multinational, and Aida will move from the Egypt of the pharaohs to an Orwellian futuristic society. This often has an artificial side because the text was not written for another arena, so it does not exploit it;
- to characterize certain characters. Brochant's luxurious apartment (Thierry Lhermitte) in The Dinner Game is a significant setting - which Veber exploits. The Nautilus in Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea is closely linked to the personality and history of Captain Nemo, a misanthrope who finds peace only at the bottom of the sea, far from humans;
- to reinforce the sensation of evolution. A number of TV series are set in a time of change (Boardwalk Empire, Mad Men, Rome...). Downton Abbey exploits this atmosphere of the end of the aristocratic reign a lot. An evolving arena tends to push characters to do the same.

Exploit the arena

An arena must be exploited, even milked. As Hitchcock [41] said about espionage in The 39 Steps, if you set your film in Switzerland, you must use chocolate, clocks, banks, and mountains. Otherwise, you can stay in New Jersey. "It must be more than just a backdrop. You have to try to use all these local elements dramatically."

We can easily imagine how to exploit an original arena when it represents an environment little known to the spectator. But how to exploit a mundane arena, known to all? Half of the "fish out of water" type stories, for example, have an unusual arena (an insane asylum in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest or an Amish community in Witness). But when it is a foreigner who lands in an environment we know well (cf. E.T. or the second part of Crocodile Dundee), the arena is unusual for the foreigner but not for the spectator. This can nevertheless lead to exploitation if care is taken to stage the gap between the "fish's" manners and the environment in which he evolves. In Time After Time, for example, H.G. Wells (Malcolm McDowell) arrives from 19th-century London in 1979 San Francisco. He orders a hamburger in a fast food restaurant and discovers their fries with amazement in front of a table neighbor who is dismayed. The same principle applies in 3rd Rock from the Sun, whose arena is our contemporary human terrestrial society. Nothing very original. Except for the protagonists who are extraterrestrials with human appearances and who react in a shifted way to everything that makes up our life, from cars to disposable tissues, from menstruation to mortality.

Before even being exploited, it is possible that your arena requires research work if it is set in the past or on the other side of the planet, or even creation work if it is a fictional arena. Science fiction authors often do considerable work to create and present their arena.

Some arenas logically derive from the subject: a peasant village in The Seven Samurai, a dilapidated and isolated sawmill in the Vosges in The Big Mouths, a submarine during World War II in Das Boot, a lost town in Pennsylvania in winter in Groundhog Day.

Sometimes, the arena is more than an original setting. It is significance. The arena of the second part of Life Is Beautiful (1997) is a concentration camp. It is an arena all the more important because it is the subject of dramatic irony. The father (Roberto Benigni) makes his son (Giorgio Cantarini) believe that the arena is a summer camp.

The sub-arena

An arena can include one or more sub-arenas. These are moments in the story that have a specific and original setting. In Ben-Hur, the general arena is the Near East at the beginning of our era with Roman domination, slavery, beliefs, etc. There are several sub-arenas: the Roman galley, the valley of the lepers, etc. In The Walking Dead, the arena is North America after a violent epidemic that has turned the dead into zombies. The authors must have quickly realized that they could not have their protagonists wander in the countryside for several seasons. Quite quickly, they offer sub-arenas: a penitentiary, a secured neighborhood but governed by an autocrat, a den of cannibals, a hospital run by police officers, an ecological neighborhood, each of these sub-arenas having very specific rules of life. Like the arena, the sub-arena must be defined and then exploited.

J. OBSTACLES

Unless the pitch already gives an idea, it is time to think about the type of obstacles your protagonist will encounter. As I develop at length in Dramaturgy [51], the most adult and enriching obstacles are internal or internally originated obstacles. So, take an interest in all the obstacles that can be generated, directly or indirectly, by the protagonist himself. A first track is to exploit his flaws. Another possible obstacle is the co-protagonist, when there is one.

An apparently purely external obstacle can be perceived as internally originated if we feel that this obstacle is deserved. This is the case of the curse that falls on Phil Connors (Bill Murray) in Groundhog Day. At first glance, he is not directly or indirectly responsible, but we understand that there is a reason for this ordeal to affect him and not someone else. The same process in Casablanca. When Ilsa (Ingrid Bergman) enters his café, Rick (Humphrey Bogart) curses fate: "Of all the gin joints in all the towns in all the world, she walks into mine." We know 1 - that fate sometimes does things well, especially when it is called the author and is competent, 2 - that it serves Rick right. He needs this ordeal to grow.

Imagine an element that makes your protagonist's world collapse. Often, it is intimate: his convictions, his motivations, his beliefs. Imagine something that twists the knife in your protagonist's wound. Plunge your protagonist into an unprecedented situation, imagine an ordeal he has never experienced in his life.

Consider a countdown

Many stories work without urgency, but this phenomenon is so effective that one of the recommended tricks for Hollywood screenwriters is called "Start the clock." It consists of introducing urgency into a scene or sequence that lacks nerve. It can be a bomb that will explode at a certain time (Dr. Strangelove, Fail Safe, 24 Hours (season 2) or WarGames) or an antagonist who seeks to reach the same objective before the protagonist (cf. the endings of The Shooting Star and Strangers on a Train). It can also be more subtle. For example, in a scene where a character must announce something delicate to a second character, you can add a train, which leaves in two minutes, or a third character who will soon arrive and must not hear anything. It can even be funnier. At the end of A Fish Called Wanda, Archie (John Cleese) tries to catch fugitives. He is in a hurry. But he doesn't know where they went. He inquires with Ken (Michael Palin) who stutters and can't get the information out. To put him at ease, Archie takes it upon himself and assures Ken that he has all the time in the world!

As we can see, this process can be used on a local scale, in a scene, semi-local, in a sequence, or throughout the action. That's why it can be a good idea to think about it at the foundation stage. In A Distant Neighborhood, the protagonist has four months to prevent his father from abandoning his family. This urgency covers a good part of the second act of the manga.

What is called the "villain" can also be an external obstacle of internal origin. This is, in my opinion, the condition that makes the most beautiful villains. Speaking of villains, we all remember Alfred Hitchcock's famous quote [41]: "The more successful the villain, the more successful the film." At the end of his interviews with Truffaut, Hitchcock nevertheless modifies this precept to: "The stronger the evil, the more relentless the struggle and the better the film." I generalize further: the better the quality of the obstacles (external but also internal), the better the work will be.

You are not obliged to have a villain (nor an antagonist, cf. below). Many successful stories have fierce opponents, but they do not necessarily do evil (Creon, for example, in Antigone). That said, if you want to have an unbearable villain, you can be inspired by the following models:
- Iago in Othello,
- the Church in The Life of Galileo,
- Bruno Antony (Robert Walker) in Strangers on a Train,
- Harry Powell (Robert Mitchum) in The Night of the Hunter,
- Max Cady (Robert Mitchum) in Cape Fear (1962),
- Tullius Detritus in The Zizanie,
- Nurse Ratched (Louise Fletcher) in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,
- Jack the Ripper (David Warner) in Time After Time,
- Annie Wilkes (Kathy Bates) in Misery,
- Peyton Flanders (Rebecca de Mornay) in The Hand That Rocks the Cradle.

These characters are indeed villains, in the sense that they are both sources of obstacles for the protagonist and that they do evil. Including Nurse Ratched. At first, Nurse Ratched mainly gives the impression of being strict. But the terrible scene where she symbolically castrates Billy Bibbit (Brad Dourif) leaves no ambiguity about her capacity to do evil. You will note that they have several common characteristics: 1 - they are the antagonists of their respective stories. That is to say, they concentrate all the external obstacles in their person. N.B. Once again, having an antagonist is not an obligation in a story. The sources of obstacles can be diverse. In North by Northwest, for example, the CIA is as responsible for Roger's (Cary Grant) misfortunes as Vandamm (James Mason). In A Doll's House, Nora has two very different opponents: Krogstad and Helmer. But, by giving the impression of making the central conflict a personal matter, an antagonist can be an interesting option.
2 - They are not primitive brutes or psychopaths like the shark in Jaws or Amon Goeth (Ralph Fiennes in Schindler's List). They are not overtly evil in a vulgar way. They can be smiling, honey-tongued. They even sometimes have charm. And also, very importantly, they have understandable motivations;

3 - They are inventive and clever. One could even say, in the cases of Iago, Max Cady, Tullius Destructus, and Peyron Flanders, that their creativity has something diabolical about it. If you combine characteristics 2 and 3, you see that a well-crafted villain can even inspire admiration;

4 - And above all, they do not attack just anyone. Even if none of the corresponding protagonists deserves to suffer so much, they do not have their villain on their back by chance. We return to the external obstacle of internal origin. In short, design your villain as the sworn enemy of your protagonist, as the ideal person to twist the knife in their wound or as their Mr. Hyde side, as the embodiment of their shadow. This last characteristic is magnificently represented by Bruno Antony.

One last criterion that deserves attention is the ruthless nature of the opponent. This "quality" is illustrated by most of the villains mentioned above and even more by Porter (Lionel Barrymore) in It's a Wonderful Life (1946), the HAL 9000 computer in 2001: A Space Odyssey, the truck driver in Duel, and the killer robot (Arnold Schwarzenegger) in Terminator. These villains give the impression that it is impossible to pity them and that they will go to the end of their interests (or programming) unyieldingly. They are steamrollers.

K. THE CLIMAX

You must conceive the climax as the dramatic knot that provides the dramatic answer. Until the climax, the protagonist has still not reached their goal but is still trying. At the end of the climax, the protagonist no longer has a goal, either because they have achieved it or because they have decided to abandon it. Once the climax is over, we logically enter the third act.

The climax is often a very conflictual and spectacular scene. If the second act had to contain measured and dynamic conflict, this is even truer of the climax.

But the most important criterion is to conclude the action. And even to resolve it. I said earlier that the statement of the objective is the biggest setup of a story. The climax is its biggest payoff. All well-written stories are there to prove it. If there is one author, among others, who has particularly understood this, it is Michael Arndt, the screenwriter of Little Miss Sunshine. In most stories, we know that the climax will conclude the action, but we do not know what exact form it will take. As soon as Little Miss Sunshine begins, we understand that the climax will be the beauty pageant in which Olive (Abigail Breslin) is entered. When the contest begins and we see more professional contestants one after another, our concern for Olive increases. We fear she will embarrass herself and wonder how her screenwriter and she will manage. We might even fear that the author will use a deus ex machina. I will not say more to avoid spoiling the discovery of this delightful climax for those who have not yet seen the film.

Another announced and remarkable climax is that of Flashforward. The triggering incident of the series is a moment of two minutes and seventeen seconds during which all of humanity loses consciousness, and each individual sees what their future will be in six months. An FBI investigation begins. Of course, it lasts six months, and the climax is the moment when everyone, including the audience, checks if the events glimpsed during the blackout occur as expected. We hope for some characters, we dread for others. A great moment, treated in the last two episodes of the series.

The climax is also often a moment of all or nothing, a sort of ultimate attempt to achieve the goal. It can also be a moment of choice, sometimes even staging a Cornelian dilemma.

Let's examine the climax of Cyrano de Bergerac, which possesses all the aforementioned qualities. At the end of Act I, we understand that Cyrano's goal is to be loved by Roxane, but he fears she will laugh in his face. This declaration announces the climax. Unconsciously, the audience imagines a scene in which either Cyrano seduces Roxane or he finally understands that he will never succeed. The scene in question arrives at the end of Act IV. By writing poems and hiding behind Christian's appearance, Cyrano has managed to make his soul loved, to make Roxane say she would love Christian even if he were ugly, disfigured, grotesque. Cyrano hesitates to reveal everything. But he feels that it is now or never. He finally decides to tell the truth when, as the ultimate obstacle, Le Bret stops him and whispers something in his ear that silences Cyrano forever. This interruption is not a stroke of fate, like an inopportune phone ring in a bad script. In other words, it is not a diabolus ex machina. It is the direct consequence of what Cyrano has set up. Christian has uncovered Cyrano's little game, understood that Roxane does not love him, and has just thrown himself headlong into the raging battle. He is brought back dying. Cyrano then understands that he can no longer speak. Edmond Rostand—who has well understood the principle of a climax—makes him say "It's over" three times, a few dozen seconds apart. Cyrano clearly abandons his goal. End of the second act.

L. THE DRAMATIC ANSWER

With the choice of the protagonist and their goal, the dramatic answer is a crucial tool for giving meaning to a work. Depending on whether the protagonist achieves their goal or not, the story says different things. It is no coincidence that in Hollywood, the question of the "happy ending" is the subject of many discussions. It even gave rise to a film, The Player, which offers a happy but ironic dramatic answer: the protagonist (Tim Robbins) is a Hollywood producer and a murderer, and he gets away with it.

N.B. In general, the dramatic question interests both the protagonist and the audience. Both want to know the dramatic answer. However, it sometimes happens that it is given to one (the audience, of course) and not to the other, as in Citizen Kane or Waiting for Godot. It is up to you to see what makes the most sense for your project.

The vast majority of works offer a dramatic answer. Life Is a Long Quiet River is an exception. The protagonist is Mme. Le Quesnoy (Hélène Vincent). She learns, at the beginning of the story, that one of her children was replaced by another shortly after birth. The one she thought was her daughter (Valérie Lalande) for about ten years is not her biological daughter. This is the triggering incident. Mme. Le Quesnoy is devastated. She then adopts her natural son, Momo (Benoît Magimel), who has been raised in a way quite different from his siblings. This, of course, does not go without friction. Will Mme. Le Quesnoy manage to cope? We will never know. At the end of the film, Momo goes to summer camp, but nothing indicates what will happen when he returns.

Did the screenwriters have something to say? Perhaps not. Certainly, it is not an absolute necessity. Even if, as we saw in Chapter 2, films of "pure entertainment" sometimes convey a point of view, one can write a story for fun. Except that Life Is a Long Quiet River is not an adventure film or a thriller. It poses a fundamental problem, that of nature versus nurture. It is not forbidden to joke about it, quite the contrary, but one must not confuse humor with carelessness. I would have liked to know what the authors had to say personally on such an important subject.

Some will point out that the most painful thing is not ignoring the authors' point of view in Life Is a Long Quiet River, but that the story stops in the middle. The two things are closely linked. Deep down, the audience knows that a story that ends has meaning. And this need for meaning is acute in humans. It is what makes a story without an end unpleasant. In Six Characters in Search of an Author, Pirandello shows that this need can even be felt by characters. The protagonists' drama is not knowing their end. Their life has no meaning.

In short, the mere fact of putting "positive" or "negative" in the entry reserved for the dramatic answer will give an additional dimension to your story and help you know where you are going.

If you plan to provide a dramatic answer in two stages, you are ready to adopt an enriched structure, a process I address a little further down.

M. THE THIRD ACT

In my definition, the third act is the transition between the end of the action and the end of the work. It gives an indication of what the characters will become. Sometimes, it allows for the resolution of a dramatic irony or a subplot that was not resolved in the second act.

If you do not have an enriched structure, your third act should be quite short. Count five or ten minutes. Shakespeare knew well that once his second act (dramatic) was over, it was time to conclude. In Hamlet, the second act logically ends with the death of Claudius (located in the logistical Act V). At that moment, Hamlet has avenged his father, he has achieved his goal. In what follows, we have the death of Laertes, Hamlet's last recommendations to Horatio, Hamlet's death, the announcement that Fortinbras will take power, the announcement of the death of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, and the assurance that Hamlet's memory will be honored. And all in five minutes!

The three acts

I remind those who have not read The Dramaturgy [51] that my conception of the three acts is not the same as that of most Anglo-Saxon theorists. My definition of the three acts is simple and logical, and even better, it is natural: before the action, during the action, after the action. If you have an action—it is recommended to have one (human and difficult, cf. page 13)—then you necessarily have three acts.

first act	second act	third act
_._,	*,-

triggering incident

climax

For reasons that continue to elude me, Syd Field [28] and all his spiritual children divide the action into two distinct parts: what they call the second act + the first half of what they call the third act. That is, they place the resolution of the action (the climax) in the middle of their third act. The only "interest" of this formula is to advance the end of the second act, thus making it shorter. As if by magic, there is no longer an 80-minute desert to fill. Of course, it is an illusion. It has never made the action easier to create. It only postpones the difficulty. And, as we saw with the analysis of Groundhog Day (pages 108-109), it can even trap the author.

N.B. I am talking here about the only act that matters: the dramatic act. Many American screenplay theorists, and not the least, confuse logistical acts with dramatic acts. They tell you that Four Weddings and a Funeral is a film in five acts. In five logistical acts, yes, but not at all in five dramatic acts. Like the vast majority of stories in the world, Four Weddings and a Funeral contains three dramatic acts. More developments on this subject in Chapter 5 of The Dramaturgy [51].

The enriched structure

You may find that your subject needs a first dramatic answer (at the end of a first climax) before being restarted and providing a second dramatic answer (at the end of a second climax).

first act	second act	third act



triggering incident

climax no. 1
t.i./c.d.c.
climax no. 2


In this case, it is rare for the two answers to be the same. Certainly, it can be entertaining to end on a positive note and then surprise the audience by saying: "Ah, you thought the hero had won, but in fact, the monster is still alive, it's back for a round" and provide a second answer, also positive. However, ending the second act with a negative dramatic answer and inviting the audience to stay attentive for a while longer to provide a second negative dramatic answer seems very dark and depressing. In short, most often, the second answer is the opposite of the first. And most often, it is first negative, then positive. This is the case in The Cameraman, E.T., The Apartment, The Treasure of the Red Rackham, It's a Wonderful Life (1946), etc.

A plot twist preceded by a crucial moment

If you choose the enriched structure, you will need to think about a plot twist that restarts the action at the beginning of the third act and a second climax that will provide the second dramatic answer. Two important rules:

1 - The plot twist—which acts as a triggering incident for the third act—cannot come out of nowhere. You will therefore have some preparatory work to do to make it plausible (and not predictable, of course). In truth, if you have to choose, it is better for this dramatic knot to be plausible than surprising. If I call it a plot twist, it is to avoid telegraphing the enriched structure. The audience should not feel that you are going to restart the action;

2 - If there is one scene not to forget or botch in the configuration of the enriched structure, it is the moment between the end of the second act and the plot twist of the third act. You must clearly show that the action is over. If the first dramatic answer is positive, the protagonist savors their success. If the first dramatic answer is negative, it must be obvious to the audience that the protagonist has abandoned their goal and has begun to come to terms with it. In other words, you must make it clear that we have entered the third act before launching your plot twist.

I insist heavily: do not be vague about the end of the second act. For a while, the protagonist no longer has a goal, either because they believe, and we with them, that they have achieved it, or because they believe, and we with them, that they will no longer be able to achieve it. I write "and we with them" because at this point at the beginning of the third act, you do not have the right to dramatic irony (neither frank nor diffuse). If you make the audience understand that the dramatic answer is not what the protagonist perceived, you are telegraphing the enriched structure.

Thus, if you want to give the receiver the impression, at the end of the second act, that "all is lost"—to use an expression that has been fashionable lately in the world of screenwriting—it must correspond to a clear and convincing abandonment of the goal. An ambiguous "all is lost" does not serve as a first climax and is perceived only as one more obstacle, possibly stronger than the others.

The entire Battlestar Galactica series offers an enriched structure. In the tenth episode of the last season (4), the protagonists reach their goal (Earth) but a big disappointment awaits them. They then abandon their goal. Everyone is depressed. Before restarting the action, the authors devote an entire episode (No. 11) to this moment of floating.

Finally, imagine what the third act of the third act will be. It can convey meaning as much as a simple third act. It can even partly justify the use of the enriched structure. It is logical, for example, that two opposing dramatic answers generate different reactions. This contrast can be significant.

N. MAJOR DRAMATIC IRONIES

At the foundation stage, you must think about the major dramatic ironies that will run throughout the second act, or at least a good part of it. Present them in the order of appearance in the story.

It is possible that one or more dramatic ironies are already inherent in your subject. If, for example, you want to tell the story of aliens who take human form to discover Earth (3rd planet after the Sun), you automatically have two major dramatic ironies: 1 - we know that the protagonists are aliens, the other characters do not; 2 - we know earthly customs, the protagonists do not. In these cases, be aware of them. But sometimes, no dramatic irony is imposed by the subject.

Victim and protagonist

I distinguish two major categories of dramatic irony: the one where the victim of the dramatic irony is also the victim of the conflict (i.e., the protagonist) and the one where the victim of the dramatic irony is a character other than the protagonist.

As examples of the first category, which I call "bomb under the table," we find:

- The Apartment: we know that Fran (Shirley MacLaine) is Sheldrake's (Fred MacMurray) mistress; Baxter (Jack Lemmon), the protagonist, does not;

- Jean de Florette: we know that Papet (Yves Montand) and Ugolin (Daniel Auteuil) have blocked the spring; Jean (Gérard Depardieu), the protagonist, does not;

- The Night of the Hunter: we know that Harry Powell (Robert Mitchum) is not a priest but a dangerous criminal; the two co-protagonist children (Billy Chapin, Sally Jane Bruce) do not;

- Oedipus Rex: we know that Oedipus himself is the murderer he is searching for; Oedipus, the protagonist, does not;

- Othello: we know that Desdemona is faithful and that Iago is scheming everything; Othello, the protagonist, does not;

- The Government Inspector: we know that Khlestakov is not an inspector; the governor, his family, and his deputies, the co-protagonists, do not;

- The Towering Inferno: we know that the fire has started on the 81st floor; most of the guests, the protagonists, do not.

And as examples of the second category, which I call "secrecy":

- Amadeus: we know that Salieri, the protagonist, is plotting Mozart's downfall; the latter does not;

- Some Like It Hot: we know that Josephine (Tony Curtis) and Daphne (Jack Lemmon), the protagonists, are men disguised as women; the other characters do not;

- Cyrano de Bergerac: we know that Cyrano, the protagonist, loves Roxane and that he is the true author of the letters Christian sends to the young woman; Roxane does not;

- Rear Window: we know that Jeff (James Stewart), the protagonist, is spying on his neighbors; Thorwald (Raymond Burr) and the other neighbors do not;

- The Great Escape: we know that the allied prisoners, the co-protagonists, are preparing an escape; the Germans do not;

- City Lights: we know that the protagonist, the "millionaire" (Charles Chaplin) who helps the blind flower girl (Virginia Cherrill), is just a tramp; the flower girl does not;

- To Be or Not to Be: we know that the protagonists are not spies or German officers but Polish actors in disguise; the real Nazis do not;

- Life Is Beautiful (1997): we know that Guido (Roberto Benigni), the protagonist, and his son Giosuè (Giorgio Cantarini) are in a concentration camp and not a recreational place; Giosuè does not.

different exploitations

As you can see, the first category considerably reinforces the protagonist's victim position. Not only does Jean de Florette struggle to make his farm prosper, but he also does not know that his spring has been blocked. Not only does Othello struggle to resist the jealousy that burns him, but he also does not know that Iago is manipulating him. That said, if this first category of dramatic irony adds conflict for the protagonist, it does not sink them. Because the prospect of the obligatory scene creates hope for the audience. We think that it is enough for the dramatic irony to be resolved for the conflict to disappear. The second category of dramatic irony, on the other hand, concerns the strategies devised by the protagonist. It tends to make the latter more active.

One might think that the protagonist is more responsible for what happens to them in the second case. This is certainly true on a conscious level. But it happens that a protagonist is a victim of dramatic irony because, unconsciously, it suits them to ignore a too painful truth. In a way, they are responsible for their ignorance. The most emblematic example is Oedipus (Oedipus Rex). It is up to you to see if your protagonist could not be a victim not of ignorance that would fall under the external obstacle but rather of ignorance that would fall under the internal obstacle, an ignorance that suits them well.
In the first category, as we have just seen, the spectator has only one desire: for the irony to be resolved, for the protagonist to finally learn what they were unaware of. In the second category, it is generally the opposite. We hope the Germans won't discover the tunnel (The Great Escape). We hope no one will realize that our protagonists are disguised as women (Some Like It Hot). But since spectators unconsciously know that dramatic irony is almost always resolved, their hope turns into fear. We dread the moment when the Germans will discover the tunnel. We wonder what the victims will think when they discover that our protagonists are men disguised as women.

A sense of urgency
The management of time is also different in the two categories. Certainly, the ironic question always arises in the same way: "Will the victim discover, when and how, what they are unaware of?" It is the "when" that is not managed in the same way. In the case of bombs under the table, we want the resolution to happen as quickly as possible. We want Jean to discover that the source is blocked (Jean de Florette) or for Othello to understand that he is being manipulated by Iago (Othello) before the irreparable is committed. In the case of secrets, it is the opposite; we want the dramatic irony to be resolved as late as possible. We hope that Jeff (James Stewart) will have time to prove Thorwald's (Raymond Burr) guilt before he discovers he is being spied on (Rear Window). We hope Cyrano will have time to woo Roxane with his soul before she learns he is the author of Christian's letters (Cyrano de Bergerac).

As we can see, some dramatic ironies contain a form of urgency. Put yourself in the place of the Greeks hidden in the Trojan horse. As long as the horse is not anchored in the city, they worry about the discovery of the deception. The Greeks must enter the walls of Troy before the Trojans understand that this giant sculpture is a trap. In The Great Escape, the prisoners must dig their tunnel before the Germans discover the truth. The difference here with classic cases of urgency is that we do not know exactly when the dramatic irony will be resolved. We just know we have to hurry.

In short, be aware of the type of dramatic irony you are using, as it will allow you to exploit it optimally.

It's the exploitation that makes dramatic irony
Of course, on this general basis, many authors show nuance and subtlety. First, some works mix "bomb under the table" and "secrets." In North by Northwest, Roger (Cary Grant), the protagonist, is unaware that Kaplan does not exist. But Vandamm (James Mason), the main opponent, is also a victim of the same dramatic irony. Vandamm also ignores that Roger is not Kaplan. In A Doll's House, Nora, the protagonist, does not realize she is infantilized by her husband, while her husband is unaware that she has secretly taken out a loan. As we can see, Nora is doubly responsible for what happens to her.

Next, some dramatic ironies are exploited in a non-classical way. In Oedipus Rex, we want Oedipus to learn the truth, and at the same time, we dread the resolution because we know it will wound him. In Amadeus, we do not dread the moment when Mozart will understand that Salieri, the protagonist, seeks to harm him because, even if we understand it, we do not approve of the protagonist's goal. In Johnny Got His Gun, the doctors are unaware that the protagonist (Timothy Bottoms) has a consciousness and is not a vegetable. We do not dread the resolution, quite the opposite. In City Lights, we dread the moment when the florist will understand that her "millionaire" is just a tramp, and at the same time, we wish for it because we want her to know what Charlot has done for her. In A Patch of Blue, we do not dread the moment when the young blind girl (Elizabeth Hartman) will learn that she has befriended a Black man (Sidney Poitier).

In short, it is not enough to determine if you want your protagonist to be a victim of dramatic irony or not; you must also have an idea of how you will exploit it. The idea is to add conflict and meaning. Ask yourself, for example, what would happen if the victim knew. Would it change anything about your protagonist's actions?

The ironic management must reinforce the dramatic question
As soon as you install dramatic irony, you pose an emotional question in the unconscious of the receiver (cf. formulation above). This question, which I call "ironic," runs in parallel with the dramatic question. In Jean de Florette, part of the action is devoted to Jean's (Gérard Depardieu) attempts to cultivate his land and make his farm prosper. Another part, intertwined with the first, deals with his ignorance of Papet's (Yves Montand) and Ugolin's (Daniel Auteuil) wrongdoing and the consequences of this ignorance. Logically, there is a link between the ironic question and the dramatic question. We cannot imagine Papet and Ugolin blocking a source and then Jean de Florette arriving at Bastides Blanches to learn piano or write his memoirs. In The Great Escape, which, I remind you, belongs to the "secrets" category, it is even more evident that the two questions, dramatic and ironic, reinforce each other. We wonder if the protagonists will manage to escape and if the Germans will discover the escape attempt. Or, if you prefer, if the protagonists will hide their attempt from the Germans long enough. We return to the time management mentioned earlier.

Beware of the ironic protagonist
When you install dramatic irony, automatically, by projection, you confer the status of protagonist to the victim of the dramatic irony. When victim and protagonist are one and the same, it poses no problem, quite the opposite. However, when the victim of the dramatic irony is not the protagonist, you must be vigilant. The best way not to get trapped is to ensure that your dramatic irony will add conflict to your protagonist, even if they are not the victim of the dramatic irony.

A classic example of this delicate situation is the story of feigned love. The protagonist aims to seduce someone but is not sincere. They do it for revenge (The Discreet), to earn money (Heartbreaker), or to win a bet (The Great Maneuvers). Opposite the protagonist, there is often an important character, a victim of significant dramatic irony. If this character occupies only part of the story (like Charlotte and Mathurine in Don Juan, Rosette in On Ne Badine Pas Avec L'Amour, or Mme de Tourvel (Michelle Pfeiffer) in Dangerous Liaisons), the danger of identifying with them is low. But if they are almost as present as the protagonist, there is a risk that we will pity them for being manipulated and feel empathy for them - this is what happens, in my opinion, in Heartbreaker. The author then offers the spectator two subjects of identification. They must make a choice. Otherwise, the spectator's posterior finds itself between two chairs, and it is not pleasant.

In cases of feigned love stories, it will happen, for example, that the protagonist not only struggles to achieve their goal but also ends up falling in love (The Discreet, The Great Maneuvers). Another classic solution to prevent the spectator's heart from wavering: make the victim of the dramatic irony unsympathetic and deserving of being manipulated. This is the case, for example, in Rear Window. At no time is the spectator tempted to pity Thorwald (Raymond Burr). And yet, a voyeur is poking their nose into his business.

You will find another enlightening example in Evaluating a Scenario [50] with the comparison between The Tall Blond Man with One Black Shoe (1973) and its remake Buddy Buddy.

MAJOR DIFFUSE DRAMATIC IRONIES
Diffuse dramatic irony is omnipresent in dramaturgy. If the question arises at the foundational stage, it is only to help you become aware of what your spectator might feel or guess at certain stages of the story.

An inexperienced author might hesitate, for example, to show a protagonist congratulating themselves on achieving their goal in the middle of the story, fearing that the spectator will no longer be interested in what follows. Tell yourself that the spectator is often smarter than that. When, in Jaws, fishermen catch a big shark and the entire Amity community rejoices, with the protagonist (Roy Scheider) at the forefront, the spectator senses that it is not the right shark. The authors provide no clues, but the spectator guesses it. Consequently, they do not rejoice with the protagonist, their attention does not wane, and they patiently await the dramatic knot that will reignite the action. This is an exploitation of diffuse dramatic irony.

These cases of absence of conflict made interesting by diffuse dramatic irony gave rise to a delightful gag at the beginning of Meet the Fockers. Greg (Ben Stiller) and Pam (Teri Polo) head to the airport to catch a flight. A stranger starts by giving them his taxi. Then all the lights turn green. At the airport, a check-in counter opens in front of them, avoiding a long queue. They are assigned Business Class seats because there are no more seats in Economy. In short, the deus ex machina sequences follow one another at full speed. A bad script would lament the lack of conflict. A screenwriter lacking confidence would fear writing a scene where everything goes too well. It is evident that it is a nod. The authors are simply announcing that it will not last and that the rest will be conflictual. And to do this, they rely on diffuse dramatic irony.

One of the privileged domains of diffuse dramatic irony is related to the trajectory question. Our perspective often makes us perceive that a character needs to grow and that the upcoming trial or the goal they have chosen will allow them to evolve. We discussed this in the previous chapter. This is how we will agree with the reasonable contradictor without having certain information that they are defending the right position.

That said, at the foundational stage, it is rare to fill in the "Diffuse Dramatic Irony" entry. In other words, if it does not jump out at you, do not waste energy and move on to other entries.

THE GREAT DRAMATIC KNOTS
As we have seen, the two greatest dramatic knots of a story are the inciting incident and the climax. Third comes the declaration of the objective (or the transition from the first act to the second act). Other dramatic knots deserve reflection at the foundational stage.

The mid-climax
The big dramatic knot that sometimes divides the second act will logically impose itself if you tell a story in two phases. First, your protagonist must escape, then they must do everything to avoid being caught (cf. The Great Escape). In Jaws, there needed to be a moment that forced the mayor (Murray Hamilton) to finally recognize the magnitude of the problem, close the beaches, and finance the shark hunt. The death of the boater on his red boat (Ted Grossman) fulfills this function. It is the mid-climax of the film. From this scene, we clearly enter a new phase of the story. In the middle of Rambo, Rambo (Sylvester Stallone) manages to corner the sheriff (Brian Dennehy) who harasses him, points out that he could have killed his deputies instead of just injuring them, and asks him to let it go. Will the sheriff give up? Cut. The army is called in to catch the protagonist. The antagonist has just escalated, and the pressure increases.

But there are more subtle, less expected mid-climaxes. The end of Act I of Waiting for Godot, when the boy first comes to announce that Godot will not come, is a mid-climax. From that moment, we do not see the rest in the same light.

In other words, even if your story does not impose it, consider the possibility of having this type of dramatic knot. It will help you reignite the action at a moment when you risk a lull. In the middle of The Fugitive, Kimble (Harrison Ford) revisits in a dream images of his wife's murder (Sela Ward). We see him performing CPR on his wife and fighting against a one-armed man. This crucial scene clarifies a mystery - Kimble is indeed innocent - and launches the major sub-objective of the second part: finding the one-armed man.

The mid-climax can also open the protagonist's eyes to their tactical errors. Before the mid-climax, the protagonist is not doing well. After, they adopt more effective means or sub-objectives. However, be careful not to conclude the action. The mid-climax should not be a climax located in the middle of the film, followed by an interminable third act. It should be a sub-climax located in the middle of the film. It should launch the protagonist on a new sub-objective or shed new light on the action. If you risk giving the spectator the feeling that the action is over, it is imperative that you thoroughly prepare the action that will follow. This is what George Bernard Shaw does in Pygmalion. Higgins' objective is to transform Eliza into a duchess. He succeeds during an evening, in the middle of the play, in a scene that looks very much like a climax. But Shaw has taken care to repeatedly prepare a fundamental question, moreover related to his subject: what will become of Eliza if he manages to transform her? The second part of Pygmalion addresses this question.

If you have a major dramatic irony, you may have a ready-made mid-climax. Because the installation or resolution of a major dramatic irony is an important dramatic knot that can be placed in the middle of the story.

Twist(s)
A twist is a surprising dramatic knot for the spectator. It can also be surprising for the protagonist or other characters in the story, but it is not a necessity. The important thing is to surprise the receiver. This is why, if an installation of dramatic irony can be treated as a twist, a resolution of dramatic irony is never a twist. It is often a surprise for the ex-victim but not for the spectator because the obligatory scene has been announced.

The twist has two major interests:
1 - it breaks the narrative monotony. Indeed, because it shakes the spectator like a small electrocution and changes the perception of the story, the twist constitutes a break;
2 - it pleases the spectator. I see two explanations for this. First, the twist brings a touch of realism. Because real life is not predictable, it is full of surprises, sometimes good, often bad. Second, the twist is perceived by the spectator as a way for the author to say: "We are partners, I take you into account." And this message is priceless.

For these reasons, I strongly invite you, at this foundational stage, to think about surprises of this kind.

Twist and red herring
Let's distinguish two types of twists:
1 - the dramatic knot that the spectator does not expect, quite simply. In episode 4.5 of Dexter, we follow with the protagonist (Michael Hall) a particularly odious serial killer named Trinity (John Lithgow). Suddenly, Dexter and we discover with surprise that Trinity has a wife and children, that he is like Dexter, a good family man. The last image of Planet of the Apes (1968) or the revelation of the doctor's identity at the end of The Monkey of Hartlepool also fall into this first type of twist;
2 - the dramatic knot that the spectator expects even less because you have taken care to lead them on a false trail. Laura, The Sting, and Les Diaboliques are partly famous for this kind of twist.

If the first type does not require preparation work (the famous false trail), you must nevertheless ensure that the spectator does not guess it. Now tell yourself that today's spectators are unconsciously trained in the mechanisms of dramaturgy. Every twist therefore requires careful management. Hitchcock uses a clever process in Strangers on a Train, at the moment when Guy (Farley Granger) goes up to Bruno's father's house. To prevent the spectator from guessing the twist, the filmmaker stages a small danger (in this case, the presence of a threatening dog on the stairs), thus a small suspense, which prevents the spectator from thinking and guessing the approaching twist.

Different forms
We readily imagine the twist as emanating from the structure rather than the characters. But the twist can concern a character whose new facet or motivation we discover with surprise. When an ally becomes an obstacle and thus reveals themselves to be a false ally, there is surprise. The surprise linked to characterization is a form of twist that authors do not think about enough.

More classically, the twist can be the installation of dramatic irony. At the beginning of The Last Metro, the authors tell us twice that Lucas Steiner (Heinz Bennent) fled France to escape the Nazis. Suddenly, we discover that he is in Paris, hidden in the cellars of his theater. It is both a surprise (preceded by an emphasized false trail) and the beginning of a long dramatic irony. Similarly, when we learn in North by Northwest that Kaplan is an imaginary agent invented by the CIA, we have both a twist and the installation of significant dramatic irony (and also the clarification of a mystery).

Unequivocal
Avoid ambiguities at the moment of resolving the false trail. In other words, the twist must be clear and massive. If there is a doubt, you sprinkle the surprise with mystery, and the spectator is lost.

In truth, even before the resolution, mystery and surprise often make a very bad mix. If you want to create a nice twist, above all, do not put mystery. You must present a reality without the slightest doubt, without the slightest ambiguity. And suddenly, boom! surprise. The resolution of a mystery is a clarification, not a surprise. It can almost never be surprising (cf. more developments in chapter 8 of Dramaturgy [51]).

It should also be noted that the great end twists have become rarer lately. This is perhaps due to the disappointment produced by some of them. But it is mainly due to the fact that we have entered the era of the "spoiler." What is nothing more than a scoundrel waste is considered by some as a way to feel superior to others. Thus, in this era of so-called "social" networks, twists are often spoiled. This is especially true for end surprises. Take this into account and think rather of mid-action twists.

The point of no return
As its name suggests, the point of no return is a moment that gives the impression to the spectator that a return to normal is now impossible. The protagonist's life can never return to what it was before the beginning of the action. Think about what could be the point of no return in your story. The interest of this dramatic knot is to reinforce the consequences of the action undertaken, therefore the stakes and the dramatic question. Because, from the point of no return, the protagonist loses an option. In a way, they can only move forward. In short, the point of no return increases the audience's participation.

The two most radical points of no return in the repertoire are those of Faust and The Matrix. Deaths, murders, revelations, love at first sight, adulterous sexual relations can be points of no return. The transition from the first act to the second act of Festen and the declaration of the objective of Lagaan are also beautiful examples. But there are more subtle ones. In The Dinner Game, it is the moment when Brochant (Thierry Lhermitte) accepts Pignon's (Jacques Villeret) help after a moment of hesitation. Pignon has already worsened Brochant's back pain, he has already made a blunder on the phone with Brochant's mistress, but he has not yet ruined his life. We feel that by betting on Pignon's ability to help him, Brochant is putting his finger in a gear from which he will not be able to emerge unscathed.

Another amusing but exceptional example: the point of no return in Back to the Future 3. It is not a moment in the story but a specific place materialized by a windmill along a railway. As Doc (Christopher Lloyd) explains, before this point, the locomotive - which must push the time machine to 140 kilometers/hour - can still be stopped. After this point, it will be too late to turn back, it will either work or break. The point of no return is therefore spatial and not narrative. Of course, it is exploited at the moment of the climax. At the moment when the locomotive passes the spatial point of no return, a narrative point of no return is created.

In most of the examples above, the point of no return coincides with a moment of choice. But it is not an obligation. Clyde Barrow's (Warren Beatty) first murder in Bonnie and Clyde is clearly treated as a point of no return. Yet it takes place in...
the heat of the moment, Clyde doesn't really have time to weigh the pros and cons or think about the consequences of his action. The car accident that destroys all the evidence in the middle of 'Beyond a Reasonable Doubt' is a powerful point of no return, but the protagonist (Dana Andrews) has no control over this dramatic knot. It's an unfortunate accident (and a huge external obstacle) in which the protagonist isn't even involved.

I don't think it's a good idea to create too many points of no return. Firstly, because you'll scatter yourself and likely dilute the impact of the true, major point of no return. Secondly, because the point of no return is meant to prevent the protagonist from returning to their starting situation. Logically, one well-designed point should suffice.

Emotional Times

This is a type of dramatic knot that authors don't think about enough. I'm talking about all those moments, sometimes small, sometimes immense, that change a character's emotion. An emotional time is necessarily a dramatic knot, even if it's tiny or subtle. Conversely, a dramatic knot isn't always an emotional time. This is quite evident in action films. But it's also true in more delicate narratives, where characterization plays an important role. In the middle of 'The Apartment' (N.B. Warning, I'm revealing an important plot point), Baxter (Jack Lemmon) is depressed and bitter. He has just discovered that the woman he loves, Fran (Shirley MacLaine), is sleeping with their boss. And, on top of that, in his own home! This discovery is a resolution of dramatic irony—because we already knew—and a huge emotional time. While drowning his sorrows, Baxter is unaware that Fran has just attempted suicide in his apartment. He returns home. There are then two dramatic knots in the scene, two new resolutions of dramatic irony. In the first, Baxter discovers that Fran is in his apartment, asleep on his bed. This doesn't change Baxter's mood. He still resents her and asks her to leave. In the second resolution, Baxter realizes that Fran has overdosed on sleeping pills. This dramatic knot radically changes his emotion. He was bitter; he suddenly becomes caring and worried. The second dramatic knot thus also serves as an emotional time.

Oedipus Rex provides another example, instructive in several ways. In the middle of the play, Oedipus begins to fear the worst: could he be the murderer of Laius? Then an old Corinthian messenger arrives announcing that Polybus is dead. For Oedipus, who believes Polybus was his father, it's a huge relief. The Corinthian's news thus serves as an emotional time for Oedipus. However, it's not at all an emotional time for the audience; it doesn't change their perception. Because, as with the example from 'The Apartment' above, there is dramatic irony. Since the scene with Tiresias, we know that Oedipus is the murderer he seeks. This knowledge prevents us from rejoicing with Oedipus when the Corinthian arrives. Note that in chapter 11 of 'Poetics' [02], Aristotle precisely cites this dramatic knot as an example of what he calls a "peripeteia." Yet the word is sometimes imprudently translated as "plot twist" or "reversal." It's clear that it's neither in Oedipus Rex. The testimony of the old Corinthian messenger may be a reversal for Oedipus but surely not for the audience, as they are ahead of the characters.

At all stages of development (from foundations to dialogue continuity), I invite you to imagine the emotion each of your characters is in and to ensure that emotional times are there to justify it. At the foundation stage, it can be interesting to imagine the major dramatic knots that will also serve as emotional times for the protagonist.

Q. COMEDY

Don't ask yourself about comedy at this stage of the foundations to determine if you have a sense of humor or if you want to write a comedy. Hopefully, you already know where you stand on these questions. The foundations are not the place to think about the little gags or witty lines that will brighten your story. However, ask yourself what general discrepancy (on a character trait or a situation) could bring a dose of humor. In short, ask yourself which characters can serve as clowns (in the broad sense), what surprises or dramatic ironies can be exploited comically, what failures or exaggerations can lead to a smile.

You can also ask yourself what type of comedy you wish to use: demeaning, demanding, or compassionate? Do you want to mock a character harshly, like Molière with Tartuffe (The Tartuffe) or René Goscinny with Detritus (The Discord)? Or rather correct them through mockery, like Molière with Orgon (The Tartuffe) or Danny Rubin and Harold Ramis with Phil Connors (Bill Murray in Groundhog Day)? Or even laugh at them in a supportive way, like Molière with Dorine (The Tartuffe) or Rodolfo Sonego with Peppino (Alberto Sordi in The Old Lady's Money)? For more details, I refer you to chapter 9 of 'Dramaturgy' [51].

R. TRAJECTORIAL ELEMENTS

If you have worked on the trajectorial question using chapter 5, you have already started filling in this entry.

Trajectorial Protagonist

It's not enough to determine which character will change in your story and what their trajectory will be. It's also a good idea to think about the historical reasons for their initial personality. Where does this guilt, selfishness, lust, softness, etc., come from? It's not impossible that the answer will end up being part of the story. In the middle of Casablanca, for example, we understand, thanks to a flashback, why Rick (Humphrey Bogart) is bitter and no longer wants to commit. You see that a link is possible here with the protagonist's ghost.

Trajectorial Objective

When you know the trajectorial protagonist's path, you know what their trajectorial objective is. It's a variation of "growing," "gaining humanity." If your trajectorial protagonist is venal, their trajectorial objective will be to become selfless. If they are naive, their objective will be to become clear-sighted. Etc.

The Reasonable Contradictor of the Trajectorial Protagonist

Let's focus on this crucial character we've already discussed in chapter 5: the reasonable contradictor. Earlier, we saw that they could disapprove of the dramatic protagonist regarding their objective or motivations. Here, it's about disapproving of the trajectorial protagonist's attitude, highlighting their need to grow.

You don't have to have a character who tells the trajectorial protagonist off at the beginning of the story and whom the audience morally and/or intellectually agrees with. Nevertheless, you'd be wrong to deprive yourself of it. The reasonable contradictor is an extremely practical tool. It actually serves to designate the trajectorial protagonist in the eyes of the audience. And it helps to launch a trajectorial question.

One day, during a conference on this subject, a participant asked me if it was really necessary to have a reasonable contradictor, if it wasn't enough to show the trajectorial flaw of the trajectorial protagonist and let the audience draw conclusions. And he cited 'The Beat That My Heart Skipped,' in which, indeed, there is a trajectorial protagonist (cf. page 129). I went back to watch the film and didn't take long to find a reasonable contradictor. It's the representative of the Right to Housing association (Serge Onteniente), who protests against Thomas's (Romain Duris) actions at the beginning of the film. In fact, the presence of this contradictor is logical and almost inevitable. Whether in life or fiction, when an individual has a flaw, they often receive remarks from their surroundings or people they encounter. Especially if their flaw creates harm for others. I'm not far from thinking that by merely showing a character's trajectorial flaw, especially if they are not the protagonist, one risks not making the audience understand that this character has the potential to grow and that the story will offer them the opportunity. So, one risks not creating a trajectorial question.

The reasonable contradictor can be the protagonist (Woody vis-à-vis Buzz in Toy Story or Juror No. 8 (Henry Fonda) in 12 Angry Men), a secondary character (the Talking Cricket in The Adventures of Pinocchio), or even the antagonist. 'Time After Time' offers a nice example. At the beginning of the film (set in 1893, in London), H.G. Wells (Malcolm McDowell) expresses his utopian views: in three generations, there will be no more war, crime, or poverty. His friend Stevenson (David Warner) is surprised by his naivety. According to Stevenson, we live in a gigantic charnel house, and humanity hasn't changed in two thousand years. After a time travel, the two men find themselves in 1979, in San Francisco. In the middle of the second act, Stevenson—who is none other than Jack the Ripper—shows Wells the world's violence by channel surfing on a television. Humanity has clearly made no progress since 1893. This scene is a painful revelation for Wells, his trajectorial climax. And the reasonable contradictor of the protagonist is none other than the story's antagonist. Note that while we agree with Stevenson on his analysis of reality, we disagree with the delight he takes in it. Jack the Ripper isn't right on all fronts!

The Trajectorial Conflict

Imagine how you can push your trajectorial protagonist to their limits. Imagine what could make them suffer enough to abandon a personality trait they've been carrying for some time and have learned to live with. Your trajectorial protagonist lives in a cesspool, sure, but they've installed curtains, air conditioning, and an internet connection. It will take a serious jolt to convince them to leave the pit.

I remind you that the notion of trajectorial conflict is also interesting when strictly no character changes. If you want this lack of change to make sense, it will be beneficial to stage conflicts and situations that could or should have allowed a character to change.

The Trajectorial Climax

The trajectorial climax is the dramatic knot that triggers the transformation of one of the characters. If you've created a trajectorial question (cf. previous chapter), you necessarily have a trajectorial climax. So imagine the moment when the character who changes goes from this to that. And imagine where in the story you will place it. At the same time as the dramatic climax? A little before? A little after? At the moment of the inciting incident? In the middle of the story, at the median climax?

Engaging in reflection on the trajectorial climax forces you to imagine how you will show that your character has changed. You can't just have them say it (as in Tootsie, cf. page 104). The character who has grown must undertake something that proves they are no longer quite the same. This is what I called "phase 4" in the previous chapter.

Think that the trajectorial climax is often the place of free will. That is, the moment when a character faces a dilemma and makes a choice that commits them. A choice made consciously and responsibly. This is one of the reasons why I think McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) doesn't transform in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (cf. page 82).

The Trajectorial Response

In general, when working on a character's internal trajectory, it's for them to awaken. In other words, the trajectorial response is likely to be positive. But, as I just mentioned above, it can make sense for you to set up the trials likely to change a character and yet, despite everything, it doesn't suffice to make them move. In Waiting for Godot, Beckett plunges his protagonists into boredom and frustration. And yet, in the end, they are still just as lost. Cf. also the example of the 11th man below.

S. THREE EXAMPLES OF FOUNDATIONS

To illustrate the principle of foundations, my first impulse was to produce the foundations of one or more known works. Except that I already do this elsewhere (in 'Dramaturgy' [51] and (one day) in 'Exemplary Dramatic Stories' [52]), and especially, one doesn't read the construction grid of a work to which images and actors have already given flesh the same way as that of a work in progress. It seemed all the more interesting to reproduce the foundations of projects not yet realized as these can constitute an excellent alternative to the synopsis demanded by so many decision-makers. You are therefore invited to observe, with the three examples that follow, that the work of foundations gives a good idea of the upcoming story and even its tone. The first project is the work of Corinne Klomp, the second of Didier Emotte. Their rights are, of course, protected. I thank them both for allowing their publication. The third project belongs to me. I'm not comfortable giving my own work as an example, but many students have assured me that it was enlightening. Partly because it offers an enriched structure.

You will notice that these foundations all fit into two or three pages. One of the goals of the foundations (like the scene-by-scene) is to have an overview of the project. I strongly encourage you to remain concise. The more you fatten the foundations, the more this overview fades.

Finally, I specify that the examples given below are not first drafts. Don't be impressed if they seem complete and accomplished.

The Foundations of 'Model Couple'

Title: Model Couple

Dramatic Pitch: The owner of a matchmaking agency—who gives his own marriage as an example—discovers that his wife is cheating on him and does everything to save face.

Protagonist: XAVIER, 37 years old, quite rigid and concerned with appearances. Hard worker. The Felicitas matchmaking agency is his "baby." Controlling with everyone, including his wife.

Arena: a matchmaking agency.

Inciting Incident: Xavier discovers that his wife GAËLLE has a lover (JEAN-FRANÇOIS).

Objective: save face.

Stakes: precisely face. If Xavier doesn't achieve his objective, he will feel a deep sense of shame. He will feel worthless.

Important characters other than the protagonist:

- GAËLLE, 32 years old, Xavier's wife. Malleable, she has been shaped by her husband, his demands, and his passion for the agency. Now she wants to take flight and finally adopt a child with a man who would love her for who she is, not for what she represents.

- JEAN-FRANÇOIS, 35 years old, Gaëlle's lover. Very natural, with a booming laugh and a mover's physique, he hides an extreme sensitivity under his apparent nonchalance. He suffers from his wife's indifference towards him and wants to be finally loved in return. He has some maturity to gain.

- CLAIRE, 35 years old, Jean-François's wife. She doesn't care about her appearance or what people say, and above all, she has given up on love. She married Jean-François after a romantic disappointment. Deep down, she is not happy and desires to love again. But is she capable of taking the risk of suffering again?

- MRS. VARNIER-DUVAL-LE GUEN, 70 years old. A widow with a grandmotherly appearance. The wife of one man but married three times already. Employed as a mole by a competing agency of Felicitas, she seeks the flaw in the model couple Xavier/Gaëlle. Along the way, she might say goodbye to her widowhood.

Sub-objectives and means: in the short term, prevent his clients and competitors from learning that he is cuckolded and in the long term, get his wife to break up with her lover. For this, Xavier manipulates Jean-François's wife, Claire, to re-seduce her husband.

First act-second act passage: disguised objective declaration: jokingly, Xavier tells a former client what his objective would be if he knew he was being cheated on.

Internal obstacle: Xavier's own schemes, his budding love for Claire.

External obstacles: Gaëlle, who is very much in love with Jean-François; Jean-François, who lacks discretion; Mrs. Varnier-Duval-Le Guen who works for a competing agency and has infiltrated among the agency's clients; Claire, who doesn't care about being cheated on.

External obstacle of internal origin: Claire falls in love with Xavier.

Climax (dramatic and trajectorial): the party for the agency's tenth anniversary. Xavier first prevents Mrs. Varnier-Duval-Le Guen from revealing everything, then publicly declares that his marriage is a sham and that he loves another woman: Claire.

Dramatic response: negative.

Third act: Xavier declares his sincere love to Claire; together, they start a new agency, specializing in marital counseling, and Xavier offers his services to the couple Gaëlle/Jean-François, who were somewhat mistreated in the second act.

Dramatic ironies: 1 - we know that Xavier is cuckolded, his clients, the mole, and his competitors don't; 2 - we know there is a mole among the agency's clients, Xavier and Gaëlle don't; 3 - we know that Xavier manipulates Claire to re-seduce her husband, Claire, Gaëlle, Jean-François, and Mrs. Varnier-Duval-Le Guen don't.

Diffuse dramatic ironies: 1 - we feel that Xavier doesn't have the ideal behavior to save face; he's weaving the rope to hang himself; 2 - we feel that Xavier is falling in love with Claire.

Plot twist: Mrs. Varnier-Duval-Le Guen is a mole.

Median climax: Claire falls in love with Xavier.

Trajectorial protagonist: Xavier, a slave to his work and the judgment of others.

Trajectorial objective: to be authentic.

Trajectorial conflict: his budding love for Claire, the realization that he no longer loves Gaëlle, the cruel realization that his marriage is a sham, the awareness that others' opinions and appearances are tyrannies.

Trajectorial climax: cf. above.

Trajectorial response: positive.

The Foundations of 'The 11th Man'

Title: The 11th Man.

Dramatic Pitch: A young girl very talented in football fights to be recognized as a professional player in the men's league and fully live her overwhelming passion.

Protagonist: CLAUDE RETZ, at 6, 13, 15, 20, and 23 years old, a child then a teenager then a dynamic and determined young woman. Claude is trapped by the idealized representations her father gives her of her mother, a brilliant activist admired by all, who died giving birth to Claude. For Claude, life is a battle, and one must fight to get what they want. For her, nothing is impossible.

Arena: the world of football, Belgian and European, female and male, amateur and professional.

Inciting Incident: After a lost football match, Claude (13 years old) is scapegoated and kicked out of the boys' team of which she is the only girl.

Objective: To be considered a true professional player in the men's league 1 championship.

Stakes: the recognition of Claude's father, a great football enthusiast. Women's football being despised, Claude imagines that the only way to exist in her father's eyes is to shine in men's football.

Important characters other than the protagonist:

- CHARLES RETZ, from 38 to 55 years old, Claude's father. A steelworker with a strong character. Committed unionist. Passionate about football, he is a supporter of Standard Liège (professional club) and president of FC Ougrée (amateur club). Charles is a straight and honest man, attached to the noble values of sport. He knows the professional football world well and doesn't like it much.

- GEORGES RETZ, from 18 to 35 years old, Claude's older brother. A well-known professional player with a chaotic career (drugs).

- FRANCK MARCANTONI, 40 and 50 years old, coach, former international goalkeeper and world champion. A football legend. Sentenced to community service for match-fixing. He's rather an honest man who made a mistake. He loves football, the real one, the one on the field, but his professional career has disillusioned him in this area. Wants to redeem himself.

- ANDREAS PRONTI, 52 years old, unscrupulous player agent, very skilled in business and renowned in the field. Cunning, intelligent, Pronti considers players as cattle.

- TIGRAN MANDORALLEN, 22 and 25 years old, brilliant professional football player, captain of Standard Liège. Very proud of his Scythian culture, he considers himself a warrior of life, a survivor. He likes women who resemble him: warriors. He is stubborn and slightly macho. Claude intrigues and attracts him because she is different from all the footballers' wives he has met.

- HORST SANTANDER, 55 years old, president of the G-14 (very powerful association of the richest football clubs). Intelligent and unscrupulous man of the apparatus, he defends the football business lobby. For him, a woman in D1 would be a nightmare. At no cost will he let Claude finish a season, let alone win a championship.

Sub-objectives and means:

- in the short term (13 years old): reintegrate the boys' team;
- recruit a great coach;
- in the medium term (20 years old): lead her team to win the Cup;
- find sponsors;
- in the long term (23 years old): obtain her professional men's football license;
- last at least one season in a top three division 1 club.

Objective declaration: After her boys' team's defeat, Claude (13 years old) sees herself holding a trophy and being carried in triumph by men. Following this vision, she declares to her father that she wants to become a professional in the men's league.

Internal obstacles: Claude's sense of omnipotence, her integrity, her physical limits. Claude is more enduring than men but less powerful and less fast.

External obstacles of internal origin:

- Charles, who stops supporting Claude when he sees she's going too far;
- the professional football world (players, agents, press, etc.);
- Horst Santander.

External obstacle:

- the professional football world (players, agents, press, etc.).

Climax: For the League 1 championship final, Claude forms a semi-amateur team with players willing to play with her. Charles and the team's doctor try to dissuade her from playing. With the doping products she's taken, she's not in shape. Not to mention that Santander will never let her do it. Claude persists. The amateurs are dominated, but Claude scores a goal that saves honor. She collapses in stoppage time, poisoned by a player in Santander's pay. Proud to have obtained her license, Claude dies in her father's arms.

Dramatic response: positive.
Third Act: a few years later, Charles, Tigran, and Franck gather at Claude's grave, who has become a symbol of beautiful play. But even though Santander has been fired, the world of football hasn't changed.

Dramatic Ironies:
1 - In the first half of the film, we know Claude is a girl disguised as a boy, but many characters are unaware.
2 - We know Pronti is a swindler with the worst intentions, but Claude is unaware.
3 - We know what Santander is plotting, but Claude and others are unaware.

Diffuse Dramatic Ironies:
1 - We sense that Claude is playing with fire and going too far, but Claude doesn't realize it. This diffuse dramatic irony is linked to the trajectory question.
2 - We sense that Claude's mother wasn't the saint Charles praises, but Claude doesn't suspect it. This diffuse dramatic irony becomes clear (to Claude's detriment) when we learn the truth about her mother's death.

Midpoint Climax: during an important match, Claude's deception (a girl disguised as a player) is revealed. She must completely change strategy.

Trajectory Protagonist: Claude, in omnipotence.
Trajectory Objective: to lose her will to power.
Reasonable Opponent: Charles.
Trajectory Conflict: various frustrations, health concerns.
Trajectory Climax: the beginning of the dramatic climax, when the doctor advises Claude not to play. She faces a choice. She could stop in time, but her omnipotence is strongest.
Trajectory Response: none. She dies before we know if she has changed.

Foundations of Culbuto
Title: Culbuto.
Dramatic Pitch: A chronically clumsy, hypersensitive man falls in love with an insecure theater actress. He battles his own sensitivity and an unscrupulous director to win her over.

Protagonist: MAXIME, 37, has been dyspraxic since childhood. It's an incurable neurological disorder affecting psychomotor skills. In Maxime's case, it's random. He can succeed in what his brain commands or fail. With no training or skills, he receives welfare and earns money by lending his body to science: he tests drugs at the Clinical Investigation Center (CIC) of several hospitals. Maxime is also extremely sensitive. While he often plays the clown unintentionally, he can't stand being laughed at.

Arena: the theater of a regional cultural center.
Inciting Incident: at the hospital where he tests drugs, Maxime falls for a new nurse. Her name is Natacha. He quickly learns she's not a nurse but an actress. She was interning to learn a role and is currently performing in a comedy play (an adaptation of The Inspector General).

Objective: to win Natacha's heart.
Stakes: true love. Maxime's love life is limited. He has relationships, but his sensitivity often shortens them. He has no family left. His social and emotional life is reduced to passing flings, CIC researchers, and a lab mouse he saved from euthanasia.

Important Characters Other Than the Protagonist:
- NATACHA, 30, semi-professional actress, very insecure about her acting skills, seeks recognition in others' eyes, especially her father's. She wants to know if she's meant to be an actress.
- HANS, 57, director. Very charming. Confidence bordering on megalomania. His life is intertwined with theater. He had a success in Avignon 30 years ago. Since then, he's been struggling. He's ready to do anything to make theater history. Admired by Natacha.
- ANTOINE, 40, lab technician, head of the CIC. Has an affection for Maxime without pity. Hopes to beat Maxime at chess one day.
- GELULE. White mouse serving as Maxime's confidante.

Sub-objectives and Means:
- invite Natacha (to a restaurant, for her birthday, to rehearse),
- get hired in Hans's troupe,
- create a play about a love-struck clown and seduce Natacha through the play,
- convince Hans to stage this new play,
- ensure Natacha gets the main female role in the play,
- help Natacha on stage.

First Act-Second Act Transition: Maxime asks Antoine to organize a tête-à-tête dinner for him and Natacha.

Internal Obstacle:
- Maxime's clumsiness and hypersensitivity,
- the terror of rejection.

External Obstacle with Internal Origin:
- Hans. He is fascinated by what Maxime does with his body, forces him to perform on stage, and uses him to create the play of his life. Maxime was a lab guinea pig, Hans makes him a theater guinea pig;
- Natacha hates mice, even white ones;
- due to Maxime's actions, Natacha falls into Hans's arms.

Climax: during a rehearsal of the new play, Maxime is so convincing in his role that Natacha changes the text and kisses him. Maxime is overjoyed. But he is disillusioned when he realizes Natacha was carried away by her actress's impulse. The theater hasn't influenced life as Maxime hoped.

Dramatic Response: negative.
Third Act Twist: Maxime agrees to a single performance of the new play to allow Natacha to perform in front of an agent.
Third Act Climax: Maxime helps Natacha on stage. She realizes she loves him and proves it to him on stage during the performance. Second Dramatic Response: positive.
Third Act of the Third Act: Maxime has found his calling: clown-magician for children in hospitals.

Dramatic Ironies:
1 - We know Maxime is in love with Natacha, Natacha and Hans are unaware;
2 - We know Maxime isn't an actor clowning on stage but a chronically clumsy person who controls nothing, the audience is unaware;
3 - We know Natacha is starting an affair with Hans, Maxime is unaware;
4 - We know Hans has come to understand Maxime's feelings for Natacha, Maxime is unaware.

Twists: 1 - Natacha isn't a nurse but an actress, 2 - Natacha isn't an actress but a hairdresser.

Midpoint Climax: Maxime discovers Natacha is dating Hans. After a moment of dejection, he decides to win Natacha over using Hans's domain: theater.

Point of No Return: Maxime is removed from the list of healthy volunteers because he exceeded the legal quota. He has no choice but to find another way to earn a living.

Comedy: created by Maxime's clumsiness - especially on stage where he steals the show -, by exploiting dramatic ironies, by some characters' dismay at Maxime's antics, and by the ridiculous obsessions of the troupe's actors.

Trajectory Protagonist 1: Maxime, hypersensitive.
Trajectory Objective 1: learn to laugh at himself.
Reasonable Opponents 1: Juliette (one of Maxime's flings), Antoine, Marie-Claude (nurse at the CIC).
Trajectory Conflict 1: the audience's mockery, humiliating for Maxime; the mirror effect of Natacha who, in her own way, also values others' opinions.
Trajectory Climax 1: Natacha opens Maxime's eyes, who accepts to exploit his clumsiness on stage and eventually enjoys it.
Trajectory Response 1: positive.

Trajectory Protagonist 2: Natacha, lacking self-confidence.
Trajectory Objective 2: stop seeking recognition in others' eyes.
Reasonable Opponent 2: Maxime.
Trajectory Conflict 2: Hans's manipulation, the realization due to Maxime, and especially a catharsis on stage.
Trajectory Climax 2: Natacha reveals her wound on stage and heals it.
Trajectory Response 2: positive.

T. A STEP TO MATURE
Before moving to the next step, I recommend taking a break, letting the foundations mature. This doesn't prevent you from jotting down scenes that seem necessary for the action. Only when the foundations seem solid and mature can you move on to milestones and fill in the scene-by-scene.

I remind you that the foundations can take several months of work. Some authors tend to quickly answer questions and move on. It's risky. One can't say they're helped by decision-makers who consider that what can be typed by their secretary in half an hour requires neither time nor talent to conceive. Consequently, it doesn't deserve substantial remuneration. It's a grave mistake that costs everyone dearly.

7. CHARACTERIZATION

"The way of acting is the way of being."
(Lao-Tseu [49])
"There will be character if words or actions reveal a determined choice."
(Aristotle [02])

At the foundation stage, you designed your protagonist and main characters. That was the first phase of the characterization work. Alongside the development of the scene-by-scene, which will be discussed in the next chapter, it's time to move on to the next two phases of characterization work.

Second Phase: Staging Characterization
It's quite possible that, in the first phase of characterization work, you imagined situations showcasing your character and even wrote some scenes, characterizing of course. These scenes may never be part of the final text, but they allow you to grasp the character. In a way, you've mixed the first and second phases.

Major Tool 1: Conflict
To convey a character's characterization to the audience, there aren't many ways, you have to put said character in a situation, in action or reaction. What enlightens us most about what a character is, is their behavior in a given situation, preferably conflicting for them or others. In The Remains of the Day, for example, Stevens (Anthony Hopkins) continues to serve his master instead of going to his dying father's bedside. At the beginning of Gone with the Wind, Scarlett (Vivien Leigh) agrees, out of romantic spite, to marry a suitor who doesn't interest her (Rand Brooks). In Titanic, at the height of the disaster, the attitudes of Cal (Billy Zane), Ismay (Jonathan Hyde), and Molly (Kathy Bates) reveal a "determined choice," to use Aristotle's expression [02], which characterizes each of them. For memory, Cal pretends to be the father of an abandoned girl to get into a lifeboat. Bruce Ismay - who is none other than the CEO partly responsible for the disaster - discreetly boards a lifeboat reserved for women and children. And later, Molly - who is a nouveau riche despised by the old aristocracy - insists that her lifeboat go back to rescue survivors swimming in the icy water.

Major Tool 2: Abnormality
Be careful, however, the way of reacting under pressure is an essential element but not sufficient. A second important factor is necessary: the character's way of acting or reacting must be different from the norm. If your character behaves like 95% of the audience would in the same situation, they resemble thousands of people and therefore lack specificity. If, for example, your character runs away when they hear "Fire!", sure, they react in a conflict situation but do nothing characterizing. While everyone rushes to the exit when "Fire!" rings out, Garfield, on the other hand, brandishes sausages skewered on a stick (Garfield). In Some Came Running, a writer, Dave (Frank Sinatra), reads one of his stories to Ginnie (Shirley MacLaine), a kind but not very bright young woman. When he's finished, Ginnie expresses her enthusiasm for the text and her admiration for Dave's storytelling ability. For her part, she feels worthless. A normal writer would thank the young woman for appreciating his prose and possibly try to cheer her up. Dave does none of that. On the contrary, he attacks Ginnie and accuses her of not understanding his story. In Cleaning Up, Blanche (Blandine Pélissier) hesitates between preventing a drop of coffee from staining her carpet and stopping her depressed friend (Sandrine Dumas) from jumping out the window. A normal human wouldn't hesitate for a second. Blanche is so neurotic that she chooses cleanliness.

You might say that abnormality, while certainly characterizing, tends to generate comedy. This isn't always true. Dave's aggressive bitterness isn't funny. Neither is Scarlett's sentimental suicide. Consider Danny (Charles Bronson) in The Great Escape, who refuses to advance in the tunnel he built and prefers to return to prison, so claustrophobic is he. Or Jeannine Schwartz (Emmanuelle Bach) in episode 3.4 of A French Village, who is so upset about losing a cake contest to a "Jewess" (Hélène Seuzaret) that she makes a scene and creates a big discomfort. Even more eloquent, in the series Hannibal (S1, ep.11), a serial killer (Eddie Izzard) disembowels a still-living doctor (Raul Esparza) and extracts his organs. A blogger (Lara Jean Choroscecki) is beside him, but not as an accomplice, as a forced witness. Any normally constituted human would tremble, scream, cry, vomit, faint, or look away. The blogger, however, watches the scene coldly. Her abnormal lack of reaction is extremely characterizing and, believe me, there's nothing funny about the scene.

Major Tool 3: Contrast
In other words, one of the major tools of characterization is contrast. Contrast, as we've just seen, between what the character does and what most normal people would do in life. But also contrast between what two characters in the story do in the same situations. The Companions, mentioned on page 134, provides a fine example throughout the film. We can also cite Blueberry in the first volume of his adventures (Fort Navajo) or Gustavo Fring (Giancarlo Esposito) in season 2 of Breaking Bad. Charlier introduces the cavalry lieutenant Blueberry just after characterizing a first lieutenant named Graig. The latter is straight-laced while Blueberry, dressed in civilian clothes, is cheating and drinking in a gambling den. In the first season of Breaking Bad, Walter (Bryan Cranston) seeks a dealer to sell the methamphetamine he makes. He associates, with difficulty, with a brutal psychopath named Tuco (Raymond Cruz). The appearance, in the second season, of Gustavo, a discreet, polite, and refined drug lord, contrasts sharply with Walter's first associate.

Setting Up the Routine of Life
Often, the second phase of characterization work involves presenting the characters in their routine of life. At the beginning of Othello, the scene where Othello is both tasked with defending Venice's interests against the Ottomans and asked to justify his relationship with Desdemona allows us to know the protagonist. At the beginning of Casablanca, Rick (Humphrey Bogart) claims he doesn't stick his neck out for anyone, but the authors don't just rely on his words. They clearly show Rick's neutrality with the announcement of Ugarte's (Peter Lorre) arrest, which Rick does nothing to prevent. Another example of masterful presentation: Carla (Emmanuelle Devos) in Read My Lips. Small details, like the coffee cup regularly forgotten on her desk by colleagues, allow us to understand that no one pays attention to her. But Carla has an uncommon ability: she can read lips. This character trait will serve her well later. Cleverly, the authors present this ability as a source of suffering: in the cafeteria, she reads the obscenities her colleagues say about her.

Sometimes, it's not one or two important characters the author must present but half a dozen. At the beginning of Stagecoach, in ten minutes, Dudley Nichols and Ernest Haycox manage to characterize an alcoholic doctor (Thomas Mitchell), a crooked banker (Berton Churchill), a strict wife (Louise Platt), a distinguished gambler (John Carradine), a cowardly salesman (Donald Meek), and a lady of easy virtue (Claire Trevor). To do this, there aren't many ways, they put them in situations. Of course, they are defined by only one or two character traits each and are not far from stereotypes. But it's clear, economical, and it magnificently launches the story. At the beginning of The Pigeon, Capannelle (Carlo Pisacane) looks for a pigeon, that is, a sucker willing to go to prison in place of a crook (Memmo Carotenuto). Capannelle addresses a first person (Renato Salvatori) who refuses. Together, they think of a second person (Tiberio Murgia) who also refuses. And so on until the gang finds the pigeon (Vittorio Gassman). By doing this, the authors present one by one the five future co-protagonists of the story, each in their routine of life. Other instructive examples can be found at the beginnings of The Chase, The Grand Maneuver, and the mini-series Battlestar Galactica (2003). This last example deserves attention. The authors present a dozen important characters for the continuation of the action. It's noteworthy that they do this over about forty minutes (for a three-hour mini-series). In other words, take your time if you have to introduce many characters.

Don't Tell, Show
At the beginning of The Decline of the American Empire, the characters keep saying "I, me...". "I am this," "I think that." In my opinion, not much is retained. First, because the information is told and not shown. Then, because a person is rarely objective about themselves. So, either what they say isn't quite right, or if they tell the truth, they're too lucid and therefore... they sound false.

At the beginning of The Court of Songs (1942), while the credits display the actors' names over the image of their respective characters, a voice-over describes the characters. Eighteen are paraded with their succinct characterization in just over a minute! How could the authors seriously think the audience would retain anything? The following (i.e., the beginning of the film) could have - should have - done characterization work so the audience understands who is who and the relationships between the characters. Unfortunately, this isn't sufficiently the case. The authors must have assumed the audience had already grasped everything during the credits.

Sometimes, the indigestible accumulation concerns a single character. At the beginning of A Ghost, Jean-Jacques Sauvage (Louis Jouvet) enters the empty room of a certain François, whom he doesn't know. "But I do know him," he says to François's father (Jean Brochard), "he resembles his room: dapper (the camera shows ties), generous (we see loose money), tormented (a skull), a bit childish (a toy), disorganized (the room is messy), romantic (Goethe's Werther) and sentimental (a flower in Werther)." Needless to say, not all the characterization elements concerning François are captured by the audience. For two reasons: it goes too fast and it's told instead of shown. The authors might have thought it was enough to illustrate the dialogues with images to show things. It's giving too much power to the image. There is something far more effective than the image to show: action.

This scene from A Ghost is reminiscent of the cliché seen a thousand times in cinema where a character reads the hero's file and lists their exploits. It's found in Raiders of the Lost Ark, Casablanca, Fort Navajo, The Grand Illusion, The Man Who Would Be King, Lawrence of Arabia, The Matrix, Birdman of Alcatraz, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, and almost all war or adventure films in the world. This type of scene usually occurs at the beginning of the work (except, oddly, in Lawrence of Arabia). Generally, we mostly retain that our protagonist is a rebel or a genius, which we didn't doubt. And we prefer to see them in action rather than hear about it. At the beginning of The Dirty Dozen, Reisman (Lee Marvin) contests the content of his file and adds that, anyway, he's more interested in results than "embellishments."

In Young Sherlock Holmes, the first meeting between young Sherlock Holmes (Nicholas Rowe) and the future Dr. Watson (Alan Cox) is somewhat like the scene in A Ghost. Just after meeting, Holmes has already deduced half a dozen characteristics about Watson. Like in A Ghost, it doesn't teach us much.
doesn't teach us much about Watson, but unlike in 'Un revenant,' it teaches us something about Sherlock Holmes' deductive mind.

Examples from 'The Decline of the American Empire,' 'The Court of Songs,' and 'Un revenant' clearly show that it's not enough to determine a character's traits; you must also effectively inform the audience. When Truffaut writes about Hitchcock's cinema that "everything said instead of shown is lost to the audience," he exaggerates. You can indeed say an event without showing it. "Bunny has disappeared" or "I won the lottery," for example. However, Truffaut is entirely correct regarding characterization elements. Stating a character trait is pointless, whether in a Hitchcock film or any other story. It's useless to say François is vain and tormented ('Un revenant'); you must show it and show it well. Otherwise, the audience won't retain the information. Being a competent characterologist is necessary but not sufficient to be a good playwright.

Crafting the first appearance Among the many ways to introduce a secondary character at the beginning of a story, one method is to have other characters talk about the character in question first, then carefully craft their first appearance. Molière applies this principle in 'Tartuffe.' During acts I and II (out of five), Tartuffe is mentioned constantly, but he is not seen. He only enters at the beginning of act III in a famous scene. His very first action is to hand his handkerchief to Dorine, saying: "Cover that bosom which I cannot behold"—and not "Hide that bosom" as is often heard.

The same principle is found at the beginning of 'The Toy,' with the character of Rambal-Cochet (Michel Bouquet), at the beginning of 'A Fistful of Dollars,' with the character of Ramon (Gian Maria Volontè), at the beginning of 'A Man for All Seasons,' more so in the film than in the play (Thomas More), with the character of King Henry VIII (Robert Shaw), and in the first album of the 'Tyler Cross' series, with the character of Spencer Pragg.

Note: It is not necessary to provide information about the important character before they appear; it is enough to make us understand that they will play a major role in the story. The idea is not to say what a character is—I just explained that it's not effective!—the idea is to arouse the audience's curiosity, to make them want to know the character. However, of course, you must place the character in a significant situation when they enter the scene. Moreover, if you choose to proceed this way, you should be creative for this first appearance because you will have created an expectation. If you write for cinema, you cannot simply ask the director to film the feet first and then pan up the body to reveal the character's face, as is often seen in macho films.

It should be noted that this narrative technique rarely concerns the protagonist because it is quite logical to present the protagonist at the beginning of a story without too much delay. This did not prevent Edmond Rostand from using the method at the very beginning of 'Cyrano de Bergerac,' as we saw in the previous chapter (pages 133-134).

When to introduce an important character? The example of 'Tartuffe' above is a tour de force and an exception in the repertoire. Even though Tartuffe is not the protagonist, he is an important character in the story. He is even the main character. Yet he only enters the scene in the middle of the play. Generally, important characters other than the protagonist are introduced in the first act or at the beginning of the second act. It makes sense. A character is important because they drive the action.

There are exceptions. Kurtz (Marlon Brando) in 'Apocalypse Now,' DeSalvo (Tony Curtis) in 'The Boston Strangler,' Lilly (Catherine Spaak) in 'The Easy Life,' the ambassador (Mogens Wieth) in 'The Man Who Knew Too Much,' Nihad in 'Incendies,' Roberta (Kathy Bates) in 'About Schmidt,' Frank Miller (Jan MacDonald) in 'High Noon,' or Lyle (Harry Dean Stanton) in 'The Straight Story.'

In all these examples, the late entries are justified by the subject. In fact, the rule that should guide you is: unless the story suggests otherwise, introduce your important characters early in the story.

Third phase: exploiting characterization In 'Braquo,' Théo (Nicolas Duvauchelle) is presented as a drug addict. He drowns his despair in cocaine and alcohol. It's a characterization element, even a foreshadowing. We expect it to be useful. Unfortunately, the authors stop at the second phase. At no point in the first season does Théo's drug addiction impact the action. Nor does the action alter his addiction problem. Of course, it's disappointing. Similarly, in 'A French Village': De Kervern (Patrick Descamps) is characterized as an alcoholic, but if he weren't, the series wouldn't be affected. Conversely, in 'The Secret in Their Eyes,' Sandoval's (Guillermo Francella) alcoholism serves the action. It's because of this addiction that the protagonist's (Ricardo Darin) investigation is closed, and it's thanks to it that the protagonist escapes a gruesome execution. Similarly, McClure's alcoholism in 'Blueberry' often causes problems for the protagonists (for example, in 'The Man with the Silver Star').

Characterization must be exploited. The examples of 'Cyrano de Bergerac' and 'The Companions' on pages 133-134 illustrate a classic case of exploiting characterization. The author has presented their protagonist, then shows us what it leads to in action, what consequences such or such a character trait can generate. Logically, the protagonist's characterization guides their choice of sub-objectives and creates obstacles for them. In 'Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull,' Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) finds himself trapped in quicksand. To get him out, his co-protagonist (Shia LaBeouf) hands him a six-meter-long snake, a python type. It was clearly established in the first episode of the series ('Raiders of the Lost Ark') that Indiana Jones is ophidiophobic. He therefore refuses with disgust to grab the snake offered to him, risking dying in the quicksand. It's an exploitation of Indiana Jones' characterization. One can only regret that it is just a nod and doesn't have longer-term conflictual consequences. As the protagonists are being chased at that moment, it would have been elegant if Jones' ophidiophobia slowed them down and they were captured because of this internal flaw.

Suggestions, tricks, and sources of inspiration Before embarking on characterization work, you can ask yourself what type of characterization excites you, what type you want to write, and even, why not, what type you feel capable of writing. Staging puppets doesn't require a particular effort in characterization. It just requires not twisting psychological plausibility for the sake of structure, which is a common trap for plot weavers.

However, if you want to present well-developed characters, you must, in my opinion, respect the following principles.

1. Know your characters well. We've seen that this doesn't mean knowing what their grandmother drank for breakfast. Transactional analysis provides excellent tools for defining a character. Knowing their life plan, their two or three favorite psychological games, and the roles they play in them can be very useful. Life, our friends, our neighbors, family members are also great sources of inspiration. We can guess that the authors of 'A Family Resemblance,' 'My Big Fat Greek Wedding,' or 'Saturday, Sunday, and Monday' were inspired by characters they knew to create these delightful family portraits. In his journal, Tolstoy explains how he combined his cousins and relatives to create the characters in his novels. Finally, testimonies are also valuable sources, whether through books, documentaries, or face-to-face. One of the beauties of being a fiction writer is being led to immerse oneself, for the time of writing, in the minds of people one would never think of associating with. It's a richness we share with actors.

2. Know, at any moment of the action, what is happening in the heads and hearts of your characters. This rule applies to all characters, including villains or tertiary characters. First, it's the only way to be truthful. Then, each individual seeks above all to satisfy their personal needs. Putting yourself in each one's shoes means being able to justify their actions, in their own system. This ties into the next rule, well known to authors.

3. Love your characters, all your characters, including the least lovable ones. The word "love" here doesn't mean "want to be loved by" or "feel love for," but more deeply, "understand," "accept." Unconditional love, the most precious commodity in the world, is simply given by accepting the other. "Humanity," Chaplin reminds us in the epigraph to the long version of 'A Woman of Paris,' "is composed not of heroes or traitors but of men and women (...). The ignorant condemn their faults, but the wise have compassion for them." A good trick to love a character is to identify their wounded child. This also works in life. This rule is particularly useful for villain roles, antagonists, or main opponents. You can prove a character wrong, but you must never condemn them. It's up to the reader or viewer to do so, if necessary. In other words, an author must be the advocate of each of their characters, not their judge.

4. Be interested in your characters' journeys as if they were the protagonist. In a way, they are. Every character is the protagonist of their own story, no matter how small. This suggestion ties into rule 2, it already forces you to put yourself in the character's shoes, probably more than is generally done with secondary or tertiary characters. It can also lead you to consider your story from another angle, at least temporarily. A small but delightful moment in 'Shakespeare in Love' perfectly illustrates this principle. Shakespeare (Joseph Fiennes) and his troupe have begun rehearsing a new play called 'Romeo and Juliet.' All the actors are gathered in a tavern to celebrate. A prostitute (Patricia Patter) asks Ralph (Jim Carter), the actor playing the nurse, what this new play is about. "Well, you see, there's this nurse..." begins Ralph. In other words, Ralph sees things from his own perspective. It is often enriching for an author to see things from the perspective of each of their characters, no matter how small.

5. Do not be inconsistent. That is, make it feel that behind these bits of characterization, there is a real human being, complex, almost ambiguous and contradictory but nevertheless coherent.

6. Show a facet clearly, then add nuances. Imagine an old maid living by the sea. One day, she sees boys swimming naked in front of her house. Outraged, she goes to the police station and files a complaint. The police merely suggest the youths swim a little further away. But the next day, the old maid returns to complain: she still sees the swimmers. The police ask the impudent ones to move away radically. We have just presented a character, with a character trait. And we could leave it at that. Isn't it more interesting and perhaps more human to find that our old maid returns to the police station three days later, furious, because by climbing onto her roof, and with a good pair of binoculars, she can still see the nudists? Haddock, who has never hated the Castafiore more than in 'The Castafiore Emerald,' takes on a new dimension when he momentarily adores her (for the duration of a panel) because she promptly throws another intruder (Lampion) out. Similarly, Colonel Fitts (Chris Cooper), violently homophobic in 'American Beauty,' when he reveals his homosexuality. In 'The Last Metro,' Marion (Catherine Deneuve), actress and theater director, drinks and eats calmly on the night of a premiere. Lucas (Heinz Bennent), her husband, can't believe it. He is terribly anxious. Marion reassures him, relaxed. Then the authors add information: Marion leaves her husband and rushes to the bathroom to vomit.

The play 'La Cage aux Folles' contains one of the most beautiful secondary characters in the repertoire (unfortunately often omitted from productions): Mr. Languedoc. Mr. Languedoc is a traditional butcher, "cut from the same cloth." He arrives when Georges is laboriously trying to masculinize Albin, his partner. "It's God who sends him," says Georges, delighted to show Albin a man, a real one. Languedoc begins by explaining a recipe in a virile manner before drinking a schnapps in one go. Georges is overjoyed: what a male in all his splendor. Then Mr. Languedoc recounts how the meats in Bruegel the Elder's paintings revealed him to the world of butchery. He starts talking about painting and colors with increasingly graceful gestures, more and more feminine, and ends by saying: "They never found Fragonard's pink again." Disappointed, Georges shows him the door. In a few minutes, Jean Poiret manages to nuance a short character by creating conflict and humor. It's masterful.

In short, without making a character one thing and its opposite, adding nuances or showing that they are prey to contradictions is a way to enrich and humanize them.

7. Whether for the protagonist or secondary characters, imagine their prism. That is, their way of perceiving things in life, their value system, their professional bias. The prism should be felt in what the character does or says. In 'Panic,' the butcher (Max Dalban) makes butcher's comments. He judges people by their meat consumption. The prostitute (Lira Recio) has prostitute's concerns. She rejects the tax collector's (Guy Favières) remarks because, in other circumstances, he dares to demand taxes from her. In 'The Imaginary Invalid,' Thomas Diafoirus, a doctor, proposes to Angélique, his betrothed, to attend a woman's dissection. In the same ultra-romantic vein, in 'Taxi Driver,' Travis (Robert De Niro) takes the young woman he is courting (Cybill Shepherd) to see a porn film! In 'Day for Night,' Joëlle (Nathalie Baye) and Bernard (Bernard Menez) take advantage of a car breakdown to make love. As a result, they arrive late at their workplace (the film set). Liliane the script girl (Dani) smiles when she sees Joëlle arrive and says: "That polo doesn't match." In 'Angel,' two English valets (Ernest Cossart, Edward Everett Horton) discuss the political situation in Europe in 1936. They mention with disgust the French delegation whose representative at the League of Nations doesn't even have a valet. There is still hope that war will be avoided because the Soviets, surprisingly, were properly dressed in Geneva. Finally, let's not rush things, the Russians still dip their bread. In 'Security Arms,' Felix (Tony Randall) has been robbed. He describes the two suspects to a policeman (Al Molinaro): "One of them had mud on his shoes and a tomato stain on his shirt. The other needed a good haircut."

8. For villains, avoid those who do evil because it amuses them (with a diabolical laugh to boot!). The best villains have their reasons. Some even do evil thinking they are doing good or without realizing it. Bud's father (Pat Hingle) in 'Splendor in the Grass' and Janice's parents (Bill Dean and Grace Cave) in 'Family Life' are excellent examples. They wonderfully illustrate the classic "It's for your own good" of parents who prevent their children from becoming independent.

If you're stuck on a character 1. A very useful trick: draw inspiration from the repertoire. There are hundreds of successful characterizations in the repertoire. Draw and mix. Such a character will be a kind of Professor Calculus, another a kind of Antigone, yet another a kind of Michael Scofield (Wentworth Miller in 'Prison Break'). And immediately, your characters come to life, you see them better.

However, I do not advise imagining a specific actor in the role. It's a dangerous crutch. First, because a great role should be able to be played by anyone (competent). Second, because relying on an actor's image confines them to what they have already played. Actors are already victims of this labeling. Third, because you are never 100% sure the actor will accept the role.

2. If you're stuck on a character you don't like, it may reflect something you don't like in yourself. Accepting this part of you—a difficult task, I admit—can help unblock the character by ricochet.

3. Sometimes, replacing the character with a completely different one (older, of the opposite sex, with other character traits, etc.) and seeing what it gives can also help. Even if it means returning to the first character under better conditions.

4. Finally, an extremely profitable trick that I had the opportunity to apply successfully: imagine you have in front of you a renowned actor to whom you want to sell your character. The actor being very sought after, they have the luxury of refusing roles that have no interest in their eyes. What will you say to convince them to play the role? Go ahead, you have five minutes—think about recording yourself. Inevitably, you will characterize the character, and very probably present the most attractive aspects, even if it's a villain or a secondary role. You may be surprised to notice a gap between the summary you will make to this imaginary actor and what you have actually put in your work. You will only have to align your actions with your words.

The role of the actor If you write for theater or audiovisual, there is an important condition missing in all that precedes for the character to be successful: the role must be well played, that is, played by a good actor, well directed. Of course, we are stepping out of the author's skills here. However, it is not useless for an author to have notions of dramatic arc or, at least, to know what an actor needs to play.

Small roles, for example, are often delicate to play. The actor is asked to start a scene, or to enter it without always knowing where their character comes from, and to deliver two or three lines. The author can considerably support the actor by specifically writing for them the dialogues that precede their text, and even better the few scenes that precede their text, even if it will never appear in the final result.

It is probably no coincidence that an impressive number of playwrights and directors are or have been also actors. We all know actor-authors (Allen, Chaplin, Aeschylus, Molière, Shakespeare, Welles, etc.) and authors better known as such but who have sometimes acted (Cassavetes, Polanski, Renoir, etc.) not to mention actors turned authors (Alberto Sordi, Agnès Jaoui and Jean-Pierre Bacri, Sean Penn, etc.). What is less known is that Bergman, Forman, Mizoguchi, and many others started as actors. This does not mean that an author must necessarily be an actor to have talent, nor that an actor is necessarily able to compose dramaturgy, but it can help.

I invite all playwrights to take an acting workshop and to direct at least once in their life.

8. SCENE-BY-SCENE

"First operation: the plan with the division of the three main parts." (Carlo Goldoni) "The pearls do not make the necklace, it's the thread." (Gustave Flaubert) "I had a big event per episode. (...) It's like a backbone. The image that comes to me is that of a Christmas tree. People don't care about the trunk. They only see the balls, the lights, and the garlands. But you need a trunk. We kept referring to it." (David Chase) "By plan, I mean the developed succession scene by scene of the entire play from its beginning to its end. (...) Once my plan is finished, I go over it and ask each scene what it serves, if it prepares or develops a character, a situation, finally if it advances the action." (Eugène Labiche)

You have well planned your story, you have coherently filled the foundation entries, you are beginning to possess your characters. It is time to move on to the next step, the scene-by-scene (also called "sequence of scenes" or "sequencer"). This consists of feeding the second act by designing the broad lines of each scene but also and especially the way these scenes follow one another. I speak of the second act because, generally, at this stage of the process, the scenes that make up the first act are known. These are the scenes that come most easily. They are also the scenes that illustrate the pitch.

The most important but the most neglected The scene-by-scene is the place of structural work, one of the most precious parts of creating a story. "The most important is the arrangement of facts into a system," wrote Aristotle twenty-four centuries ago. "Most people think that screenwriting is just dialogue," explains William Goldman, "(...) The reality is that the most important contribution of a screenwriter is structure."
compared to dialogues, Paul Schrader [72] states: "Structure is infinitely more important."

Why is it so important to structure your narrative? I see several reasons. First, because structure is a factor of plausibility. If life is governed by causal relationships, we expect the same in fiction. Then, because structure satisfies our need for meaning and unity. In "What Do You Say After You Say Hello?" Eric Berne [04] explains that "most people start to feel uncomfortable as soon as they face an unstructured period of time." He concludes that "time structurers are among the most sought-after and best-paid members of any society." Structure has a third quality: it represents the most powerful language of the narrative, ahead of the language of actions, gestures, or dialogues. More meaning is generated, and more durably, by creating links between scenes than by producing dialogues.

This language of scenes involves cerebral persistence. When, for example, you install an emotional question in the mind of your receiver, they keep the question in a corner of their subconscious throughout the unfolding of the narrative. As long as you take care to feed this question in a measured way until its resolution, you create meaning and connection, and you make your receiver want to continue following you. This is also the last major quality of structure: it allows you to hook the receiver and maintain their deep interest.

Observers have not only stated that structure is the most important thing, but they have also noticed that it is the least shared skill, that "those who start in poetry are capable of finesse in expression and characters before knowing how to arrange the system of facts" (Aristotle [02]). How is it that the most important part of creating a narrative is also the most neglected? Again, several reasons. First, it's invisible. The work of structure is the submerged part of the iceberg. Authors are like David Chase's [20] spectators; they don't see the trunk in a Christmas tree, only the garlands. Second, it's difficult. "The genius who arranges incidents seems rarer than the one who finds the right speeches" (Diderot [25]). Consequently, among those who try, many struggle. Third, for most authors, structuring is not fun. It's so much more fun to come up with ideas for garlands, images, actions, dialogues, or scenes rather than ideas for sequences. Yet a scene is only beautiful if it has a function in the structure. Without that, its beauty is only superficial.

I see many works whose authors have dispensed with reflection or work on structure. Some launch a strong premise and imagine what could happen. Oh, this could happen, and then that, and then this. Let's explore, explore, without ever conceiving a backbone. I see adapters of novels or mangas who delay the inciting incident to 45 minutes, sometimes 60 (out of 90 minutes of film!). And who omit the declaration of the objective even though it exists in the original work. I see authors who ask the receiver to trust them. "Follow me, I know where I'm going." They take their starting point, their endpoint, and imagine all the scenes that more or less allow them to move from one to the other. Basically, they string pearls. Except they don't have a thread. Well, there's something better than asking the receiver to follow you blindly; you can offer them a guiding thread. Precisely by launching emotional questions and structuring your narrative. It requires courage, humility, generosity... and skill.

If you are convinced of the interest of this work and have solid foundations, you can start by placing the major dramatic knots of your narrative on an axis representing it (see pages 176-177). If your foundations include a mid-climax, a point of no return, a trajectory climax, one or more plot twists, the installation and resolution of major dramatic ironies, place them on your axis, even if it's approximate. You will thus find yourself with the first slice of what we will call the "milestones."

A. MILESTONES AND SEQUENCES

You will understand that filling the second act is not about padding. It's about giving body and substance to the heart of the narrative, and it's far from an easy operation. As an author, I have always been frustrated not to find in narratology treatises assistance for one of the biggest problems facing playwrights and screenwriters: how to fill that big eighty-minute hole, how to leap into the void? The trick of many theorists to shorten the second act and lengthen the third (with two very different parts) doesn't solve much. The hole is shorter, but first, it still needs to be filled, and second, it only postpones the problem. I ended up adopting a very practical net that consists of dividing the second act into sequences or even, more simply, into groups of scenes. To remain flexible, let's say the number of these sequences can be between two and eight.

Sequences can be designed based on the protagonist's sub-objectives since that's their very definition. But one can also first conceive what I call the "milestones," which are basically the major dramatic knots of the second act. By determining the milestones, you will similarly arrive at the sequences since there is often a sequence between two milestones. It's up to you to see if you prefer to focus on the posts or the intervals. Personally, I find it more practical to first conceive the posts, that is, the milestones. Partly because there isn't always a sequence between two milestones. Sometimes the interval between two strong dramatic knots is just made up of scenes that lead from one milestone to another and not a group of scenes underpinned by a sub-objective.

Note: Some theorists divide the second act into two parts: a descending part - the protagonist is doing worse and worse - and an ascending part - the protagonist bounces back - or the reverse depending on the nature of the ending (success or failure). The two parts are separated by the mid-climax. Like the milestone method, this method can help build the second act, but it doesn't suit all narratives. Even if this structure is clearly seen in some contemporary American films, I advise against applying it systematically. Adopt it if it suits your subject. You will note that it is not incompatible with the milestone method, the climax and the mid-climax being the two greatest milestones of the entire second act.

The milestones of "North by Northwest"

In terms of fractal structure, "North by Northwest" is a model (see Exemplary Dramatic Narratives [52]). The film is divided into seven very easily identifiable sequences. All the scenes in the film without exception belong to one of the sequences, which is very rare. Indeed, as I express above, it happens that some parts of a narrative are composed of a set of scenes not linked by a sub-objective. I invite you to watch or rewatch the film written by Ernest Lehman and Alfred Hitchcock to better understand the following analysis. When we think back to "North by Northwest" and its bravura pieces, we are not far from listing the film's milestones: Roger's (Cary Grant) kidnapping, the drunken driving, Townsend's (Philip Ober) murder at the United Nations, the CIA meeting that informs us Kaplan doesn't exist, the airplane trap, the auction, Roger's assassination by Eve (Eva Marie Saint), and finally the chase on Mount Rushmore. More or less, these are the film's milestones. Here is the entirety with the objectives or sub-objectives of Roger that result from them, that is, the objectives or sub-objectives that Roger adopts after experiencing the milestone - and not during it; the sub-objective that counts is the one that unifies a sequence, not that of the milestone itself.

1. Roger's kidnapping. It's the film's inciting incident. Objective: regain freedom. Sub-objectives: escape, convince that he is not Kaplan.
2. Drunken driving. Sub-objective: prove his innocence.
3. Roger's humiliation by the fake Mrs. Townsend (Josephine Hutchinson). Objective: clarify this mystery.
4. Townsend's murder at the UN. Sub-objective: escape the police.
5. The CIA meeting that explains Kaplan doesn't exist. Roger's sub-objective: discover what he doesn't know.
6. The scene where we discover Eve works for Vandamm (James Mason). Sub-objective: avoid traps and discover what he doesn't know.
7. The airplane trap. Sub-objective: understand Eve's role.
8. The auction. It's the climax. Roger is out of trouble, he has put himself under police protection, he no longer has an objective.
9. The airport scene where Roger learns Eve is a double agent. It's the third act's plot twist that reignites the action - we are dealing with an enriched structure. Roger's new objective: help Eve divert Vandamm's suspicions.
10. Roger's assassination by Eve. It's the climax of the sixth sequence. In the third act of this sequence, Roger learns Eve must leave with Vandamm. New sub-objective: prevent Eve from leaving.
11. The chase on Mount Rushmore. It's the climax of the third act, followed by a very short third act.

Nothing tells us that Alfred Hitchcock and Ernest Lehman placed these milestones on paper before filling the sequences as David Chase [20] explains having done on "The Sopranos." Hitchcock [41] states that at the beginning of the writing, Townsend's assassination at the UN was the film's inciting incident. The two screenwriters must have experimented with their milestones, trying different combinations. In any case, the result is impressively rigorous. Not only is the film punctuated with great moments and divided into sequences, but the authors make the effort to systematically have all his sub-objectives explained by the protagonist. It seems difficult to believe that this work was done solely by instinct. There is consciousness in the construction of "North by Northwest." In short, if you want to write a plot-driven narrative, study Hitchcock and Lehman's screenplay closely.

Milestone and sub-objective

Following each milestone, imagine what sub-objective it induces for your protagonist. They necessarily have one because a milestone acts as a local inciting incident. It's even an essential criterion. If you imagine a twist that doesn't serve as a local inciting incident for the protagonist, you may have a strong dramatic knot, but you don't have a milestone. If it doesn't create a new sub-objective, a milestone can reinforce the general objective or the previous sub-objective, that is, confirm the protagonist in their quest.

The first act-second act transition being the first milestone of the second act, the resulting sub-objective is generally the easiest means the protagonist adopts to achieve their objective. It's logical. A living organism first aims for the simplest, most obvious, least costly. Of course, in dramaturgy, it never works. At the end of the first sequence, the protagonist is forced to find a solution that requires more investment. Or it partially worked, but they must manage unforeseen consequences. Hence new sub-objectives.

Ironic sub-objective

The sub-objective can be linked to an ironic question if the milestone is the installation of a dramatic irony of which the protagonist is a victim. We have just seen two examples above with milestones 5 and 6 of "North by Northwest." Milestone No. 5, for example, is both a plot twist - we learn, surprised, that Kaplan doesn't exist - the clarification of part of the mystery - we understand why spies could have mistaken Roger for Kaplan - and the installation of a major dramatic irony - we now have information that neither Roger nor Vandamm possesses. Since Roger is a victim of this dramatic irony, he cannot have a sub-objective related to this information that he is unaware of consciously and unconsciously. It is therefore we who, by projection, give him a sub-objective related to the ironic question: discover what he doesn't know. Even if this scene doesn't change Roger's general objective and sub-objectives, it changes our perception of the entire sequel. And it changes the way the authors exploit the obstacles. When, for example, Roger seeks to see Kaplan - whom we now know doesn't exist - and Eve - whom we know works for Vandamm - organizes a meeting for him, pretending she just had Kaplan on the phone, our feeling partly depends on this milestone.

Parenthesis on the synopsis

By definition, a synopsis is a summary that provides an overview of a text or narrative. It is clearly more useful to decision-makers than to authors. Many decision-makers (especially in television and comics) require a synopsis before committing to writing - and even sometimes before paying a single cent, as if writing a synopsis didn't require time and skills. A harmful practice, of course.

Let's distinguish two types of synopses. The half-page synopsis, a maximum of one page, which summarizes the first act quite copiously and then gives an idea, in a few lines, of what the second act will be. It can even omit the ending to preserve suspense. This type of document is more of an expanded pitch. And then there's the true synopsis, several pages long, which summarizes everything that happens in the order of the narrative but in a literary style. This type of synopsis should be more of a presentation tool intended for professional organizations (once the screenplay is written) than a creation tool. It cannot be written correctly in a few days before doing substantial construction work. Writing the synopsis of a screenplay that doesn't exist is like designing the trailer for a film that hasn't been shot. As a result, when written at the beginning of the project, it often gives a poor idea of the film's potential. Not to mention that it can handicap the author who struggles to depart from it. The foundations could and should advantageously replace the synopsis. When I read well-written foundations, I see a narrative.

Yes, but then, what to do with decision-makers who demand a synopsis because it's convenient for them? First, ask for a contract and a check to write it. Second, design the foundations of your narrative and its milestones before adapting everything into a synopsis. That's why I'm talking to you about the synopsis now, at a time when you know your milestones. Even if, once again, the ideal is to write the synopsis once the screenplay is finished. It's often an enriching exercise. It's another way to have an overview of your narrative.

Some authors spontaneously write a synopsis from the start, without being asked. I see an explanation for this. Even if it's difficult to find the twists that lead from the beginning of the narrative to its end, at least when writing the summary of a story, one is in the narration, in the concrete. One can let oneself go with the flow of writing. The foundations have a "disadvantage": they require reflection and planning. They demand a certain power of abstraction - even if, as I wrote on page 52, they do not exclude spontaneity, creativity, emotion, and pleasure.

Final reflection on the synopsis, if you want or need to write one, write a condensed version of the narrative, not a condensed version of the story. If you want to summarize "Casablanca," for example, don't start with Rick's (Humphrey Bogart) and Ilsa's (Ingrid Bergman) adventure in Paris. More or less, your synopsis should respect the order of the narrative.

B. THREE EXAMPLES OF MILESTONES

The example of "North by Northwest" above serves more to show that a work can be divided into sequences than to familiarize you with the work of milestones. When I write "The airplane trap" and nothing more, I rely on your knowledge of the film to understand and see what it's about. As with the foundations, it is more enlightening to propose the milestones of a work you don't already know the embodiment and imagery of. Here are the milestones of "Couple témoin," "Le 11e homme," and "Culbuta" with the corresponding sub-objectives.

Again, don't be intimidated. If you start designing the milestones of your narrative, your first draft won't be as accomplished. There will probably be fewer milestones. The sub-objectives won't all be obvious. You may even not have a precise sub-objective for some sequences. In short, you'll have gaps, uncertainties. It's normal.

The milestones of "Couple témoin"

1. XAVIER, head of the Félicitas matchmaking agency, discovers that his wife GAËLLE has a lover. It's the film's inciting incident.
2. Jokingly, Xavier tells a former client of his agency what his objective would be if he knew he was being cheated on. It's the first act-second act transition. Xavier's general objective: save face.
3. Gaëlle understands that Xavier knows about her affair with JEAN-FRANÇOIS. She proposes a deal: she plays the exemplary couple game, in exchange, he turns a blind eye to her affair. Xavier pretends to accept. Xavier's sub-objective: break the relationship between Gaëlle and Jean-François.
4. MME VARNIER-DUVAL-LE GUEN, a client of the agency, is a mole sent by a competing matchmaking agency. Xavier's sub-objective related to dramatic irony: discover what he doesn't know.
5. Gaëlle discovers that Xavier is trying to break her relationship with Jean-François. She leaves the marital home. Xavier learns that Jean-François is married (to a certain Claire). Sub-objectives: hide the breakup with Gaëlle and manipulate CLAIRE to win back her husband.
6. Claire falls in love with Xavier. It's the mid-climax. Sub-objective: discourage Claire.
7. Xavier unconsciously falls in love with Claire. Xavier's dramatic sub-objective: understand what is happening to him and renounce this love. Trajectory sub-objective: accept his feelings.
8. To dissuade Claire from leaving her husband, Xavier bluntly tells Claire that he, Xavier, doesn't love her. Claire is devastated. Trajectory sub-objective: make amends.
9. Xavier discovers that Mme Varnier-Duval-Le Guen is a mole and that she has photos of Xavier and Claire that could raise suspicions. Sub-objective: prevent Mme Varnier-Duval-Le Guen from causing harm.
10. Instead of returning to Jean-François, Claire breaks up. Jean-François proposes to Gaëlle to start a new life with him. Gaëlle accepts. Xavier's sub-objective: get Gaëlle not to leave him immediately and to keep up appearances until the party planned for the agency's tenth anniversary.
11. The agency's anniversary party. Xavier neutralizes the mole. Despite everything, he publicly declares in front of his former and new clients that he is playing a comedy: his couple is far from being a model, and he loves another woman, Claire, present here, whom he asks to marry him in front of everyone. It's the climax. Xavier abandons his objective. End of the second act. Third act objective: start a new agency with Claire, specializing in marital counseling.

The milestones of "Le 11e homme"

1. CLAUDE, 6 years old, discovers the world of football through the passion of her father (CHARLES) and her older brother (GEORGES). She is amazed.
2. CLAUDE, 13 years old, despite being a formidable footballer, is kicked out of her team (composed of 95% boys).
3. Claude declares to her father that she wants to become a professional football player in the men's championship. It's her general objective. First sub-objective: regain her place in the boys' team.
4. Claude learns that she will soon reach the age limit for mixed teams (15 years). Sub-objective: find a way to stay with the boys.
5. With her team's complicity, Claude pretends to be a boy in the eyes of the official bodies. Sub-objective: not to be unmasked.
6. Eight years later. CLAUDE, 22 years old, still successfully passes for a young man. During the Belgian Cup final, Claude's identity is revealed. The team is disqualified. It's the mid-climax. Sub-objective: find another way to integrate men's football.
7. Claude convinces a major club to hire her. She is talented, and for the club, it will be huge publicity. Sub-objective: be accepted by her father, her teammates, and the FIFA management, embodied by HORST SANTANDER, very hostile to the presence of a woman in League 1.
8. Claude starts doping. Ironic sub-objective: stop before it has serious consequences.
9. Claude and TI GRAN, a player on her team, fall in love. Objective of this secondary plot: make their love last.
10. Santander manages to accuse Claude of cheating. Claude is arrested. The press goes wild. The players renounce the young woman. Except Tigran, but Claude doesn't know it. Dramatic sub-objective: get out of this nightmare. Ironic sub-objective: discover that Tigran supports her.
11. In exchange for her renunciation of football, Santander offers to clear Claude's name. Claude cracks and accepts. Ironic sub-objective: discover that Tigran supports her.
12. Claude understands that Tigran hasn't abandoned her. Sub-objective: play one last match. If she succeeds, she will obtain her definitive license.
13. Charles begs his daughter not to play. She is putting her health at risk. Not to mention that Santander will never let her do it. But Claude is determined. Dramatic sub-objective: play the match. Ironic sub-objective: stop before it's too late.
14. Ligue 1 Championship final. Claude obtains her license but dies from general poisoning.

The Milestones of Culbuto

1. MAXIME meets NATACHA. Love at first sight. This is the film's inciting incident. But Maxime doesn't yet have his overall goal. Sub-goal: test the waters.

2. Maxime asks ANTOINE to help him invite Natacha to dinner. This is the transition from the first act to the second act. Maxime's overall goal: win Natacha's heart.

3. The dinner is a disaster. Sub-goal: find a way to be close to Natacha. Sub-sub-goal: get hired at the theater by HANS as a medical advisor.

4. Maxime replaces one of the actors, steals the show on stage, and is humiliated by the character played by Natacha. Sub-goal: never go on stage again.

5. Natacha refuses another date with Maxime. Sub-goal: find a solution to be near Natacha.

6. Natacha and Hans fall into each other's arms. Maxime's sub-goal linked to dramatic irony: discover that it will be even more difficult than expected and understand Natacha's emotional issues.

7. Hans decides to stage a new play with Maxime in the lead role. Maxime's sub-goal: seduce Natacha as quickly as possible before the humiliations worsen.

8. Maxime discovers that Natacha is dating Hans. This is the mid-climax. Sub-goal: seduce Natacha using the theater.

9. Hans hasn't chosen Natacha for the female role in the new play ("Culbuto"). Maxime's sub-goal: get the role for Natacha.

10. Hans realizes Maxime is madly in love; he gives the role to Natacha and changes the ending of "Culbuto." Maxime's sub-goal linked to dramatic irony: discover that Hans is using him.

11. Maxime understands that Hans knows and is challenging him through the play. Sub-goal: give it his all and win Natacha's heart against Hans.

12. During a rehearsal, Giulena (played by Natacha) falls for Culbuto (Maxime). Initially euphoric, Maxime soon realizes that Natacha likes him but doesn't love him. This is the climax. Maxime abandons his goal. End of the second act.

13. Maxime agrees to play "Culbuto" only once. This is the twist of the third act. Maxime's new goal: help Natacha find out if she's meant for the theater.

14. Premiere of the new play: Maxime agrees to exploit his clumsiness, Natacha experiences a catharsis and falls into Maxime's arms. This is the climax of the third act.

These three lists were developed after a lot of writing and rewriting. Don't try to come up with a dozen milestones right away. Start with a small half-dozen. Others may come during the writing process.

C. FROM MILESTONES TO SCENE-BY-SCENE

When you have enough milestones in the second act, you can move on to developing the scene-by-scene. With this advantage, you no longer have to fill a second act of sixty or eighty minutes but sequences of ten or fifteen minutes. The work consists of finding the scenes that allow you to move from one milestone to another and/or develop a constructed sequence.

_The "what," a priori or a posteriori

Once again, the scene-by-scene work is a structural task, a syntactic work from one scene to the next. You must therefore focus on the meaning created by the sequence of scenes. In other words, the scene-by-scene is the place of the "what." What matters is knowing what each scene essentially conveys. The question of "how," of how to convey the content of each scene, will be addressed when we move on to the treatment (chapter 9).

I recognize that it is very difficult to stick to the "what" when writing a scene-by-scene. The exercise is too cerebral to be practiced perfectly. It is very tempting to elaborate and add details. If you can't be 100% synthetic, do a first draft as it comes to you and then summarize each scene. The scene-by-scene work can be done a priori or a posteriori.

You will probably feel that this scene-by-scene work stifles your imagination. But keep in mind that the scene-by-scene is the only and unique way to work on the structure. To the point that I sometimes return to a very sparse scene-by-scene when a finished text, with dialogues in full, has structural issues. If you are able to let your imagination run wild and write the scene-by-scene a posteriori to work on the sequence of scenes, then no problem. But if you can never summarize your scenes synthetically, neither before nor after writing them, you can only hope that your imagination and spontaneity are naturally... well-structured!

A skeletal scene-by-scene

Each scene in the scene-by-scene must be reduced to its bare minimum. This is the only way to express what is essentially learned from it. In an ideal scene-by-scene, scenes are summarized in two or three lines. Again, they explain what is learned but do not tell what happens. For example, you will simply write: "Mrs. Dupont is greedy," nothing more. How we learn that Mrs. Dupont is greedy will be the subject of the treatment.

This discipline makes the scenes necessary. It often happens that an author elaborates when their scene is not essential. Charming little details give the impression that the scene is useful when at best, it is interesting. The necessary and the interesting are two very different notions. A good scene should therefore be easily summarized in a few lines. If a scene cannot be summarized in less than two or three lines, it's a bad sign.

Moreover, not getting into adaptation details allows you to keep an open mind. When you develop the details of a scene, you often get used to them, without realizing that there might be a better way to convey the information.

Many Anglo-Saxon screenwriters create their scene-by-scene on index cards the size of a business card, each card representing a scene. This forces them to indicate only the essential of each scene. A similar method consists of using Post-its (one per scene, also) and sticking them on a board to have an overview of the story. William Goldman [33] takes the discipline even further: "I write a list of scenes. 30, 40, 80 scenes. In fact, they are not scenes but key words. 50 words, for example, each word being meant to remind me of a scene that advances the story. Since we are dealing with structure, this principle is crucial."

From general pitch to local pitch

In a good scene-by-scene, each scene should be able to be presented as a local dramatic pitch. The only difference with a general pitch is that each scene must summarize both the action and its result. Do not write "Alex tries to get money from his ex-wife" but "Alex manages to get money from his ex-wife" or "Alex fails to get money from his ex-wife." In other words, do not launch a mini-suspense with each scene. Local dramatic responses, positive or negative, count to grasp the meaning created by their sequence.

To fill the second act

First of all, to fill the second act, put conflict in the way of your protagonist, do not let them advance peacefully, make them struggle (with love). In other words, the majority of local dramatic responses we just talked about should be negative.

The thematic subplot

What I call a "thematic subplot" is formed when the same secondary narrative element appears three times or more and takes on a symbolic dimension. Be careful, it must be a secondary element. If it is about World War II in a film set during World War II, you are not dealing with a thematic subplot but with the main thematic plot. A thematic subplot can be linked to an animal (a cat in 'The Flowers of War'), an object (a book in 'La Reine Margot,' a hat in 'Ninotchka,' a pebble in 'Departures'), an activity (practicing English, scuba diving, smoking in 'No Man's Land'), a theme (money, bioethics, racism, etc.), a secondary character (a florist, a taxi driver, etc.).

The thematic subplot uses the preparation-payment mechanism. But that is not its only criterion. In 'The Man Who Knew Too Much,' a song ('Que Sera, Sera') is planted at the beginning of the film and pays off magnificently at the climax. However, this does not make it a thematic subplot because the song only appears twice. 'The March on Rome' contains a beautiful thematic subplot.

In 1919, Umberto (Ugo Tognazzi), a modest farmer, discovers the fascists' program printed on a poster. It talks about allowing freedom of the press, returning land to the peasants, abolishing noble titles, etc. Seduced, Umberto joins the fascist movement. As he goes through his journey, he discovers that the fascists hardly respect their program. He begins to cross out the articles that are violated. Until all the entries in the program are crossed out and Umberto makes the gesture of wiping himself with the poster. This subplot is triply thematic: 1 - it concerns an object that reappears several times, 2 - the object in question directly refers to one of the film's themes (the birth of Italian fascism), 3 - the object symbolizes the character's evolution.

Be very attentive to thematic subplots because they sometimes arise without realizing it. However, from the moment you have created a thematic subplot, you must understand what it symbolizes, exploit it, and resolve it - basically, by putting a payoff at the end. Note that it is quite possible for a thematic subplot to arise later in the writing, at the time of the treatment or even the dialogue continuity.

Organic evolution...

Two essential principles must be respected in the second act. First, avoid a series of sketches. Scenes must logically follow one another and respond to each other. The scene-by-scene is the place of general milking - when the treatment will be the place of local milking. It is by exploiting existing elements, by whipping up the few eggs you have in your basket that you will create a knitting effect and give your work an organic dimension. Consciously or unconsciously, authors like spectators know that structure is important (cf. above). Consciously or unconsciously, authors (not spectators) know that it is also one of the most difficult languages to master. As a result, some pretend to offer structural work by avoiding the difficulty. First structural avoidance: false knitting. You take three pearl necklaces and mix them. Most series episodes are constructed this way. In 'Friends,' you have three plots: A, B, and C. A typical episode of 'Friends' is constructed like this: A1-B1-C1-A2-B2-C2-A3-B3-C3-A4-B4-C4. In 'Desperate Housewives,' the principle is the same with four plots instead of three. Second structural avoidance: the quest narrative. Police or not. It is very easy to structure, you start with the crime then you follow with the investigation, clues, interrogations and you end with the resolution of the mystery. Needless to say, in both cases, there is only an illusion of structure.

There are several ways to give a story an organic dimension. The most powerful consists of launching emotional questions (dramatic, ironic, or trajectory) at the beginning of the story and proposing only scenes that lead to their resolution. The receiver will have these questions in a corner of their subconscious (cerebral persistence, cf. above), will perceive the function of each scene, will be torn between hope and fear, in short, will participate.

You can also create an organic dimension through a subplot. In 'The Pigeon,' one of the co-protagonists, Mario (Renato Salvatori), is attracted to Carmela (Claudia Cardinale) who is kept locked up at home by her brother Michele (Tiberio Murgia). To get the young woman to open up, Mario takes advantage of the absence of her guard and pretends to be him: "It's Michele, I forgot the key." She falls for it and Mario discovers that Carmela is charming. Thirty minutes later in the film, Mario returns to the charge. He imitates Michele again but this time, of course, the young woman's reaction is different: she plays along. A quarter of an hour later in the film, it's the real Michele who has genuinely forgotten his keys. Carmela opens with pleasure, convinced it's Mario, and gets scolded. You will notice that this subplot is built on the principle of the triad A-A-N. These three scenes scattered in the middle of the second act of 'The Pigeon' undeniably create a link. And even a double link. There is first a link between the three scenes since they develop a subplot. But there is also a link between these three scenes and the other scenes that surround them. This subplot acts as a binder. Another quality of this subplot: its elements have repercussions on the main action. We see Mario interested in Michele's sister in a previous scene, at the beginning. Then, after the triad, Michele seeks revenge, which pushes Mario to abandon his co-protagonists. And finally, in a sixth scene, Michele entrusts Carmela to Mario in case the burglary goes wrong. Skillfully, these six scenes are thus sprinkled between the 8th and the 77th minute of the film. If you chain several scenes of a subplot at once, you give the impression that you have abandoned the main action and are telling something else.

In 'Kung Fu Panda,' Master Oogway summons his chamberlain, Shifu, to tell him he had a vision: the terrifying Tai Lung escaping from his prison and sowing terror in the valley. Immediately, Shifu orders the goose Zeng to run to the prison where Tai Lung is locked up and further strengthen security. Oogway then comments: "It is on the path where one believes to avoid it that one often meets one's destiny." And indeed, Zeng's arrival in the high-security prison has the perverse effect of allowing Tai Lung to escape. If Shifu had not feared Tai Lung's escape and had not sent Zeng, Tai Lung would not have been able to escape. Story enthusiasts will recognize a mechanism, already at work in the myth of Oedipus, sometimes called a "self-fulfilling prophecy." By creating these causal relationships in their story, authors create a link between scenes.

In short, think about creating causal relationships and evolution effects from one scene to another. This consists of exploiting to the maximum everything that is planted at the beginning of the story, to pay off in scene x + 10 what was used in scene x. For example, by reusing secondary characters. No scene should give the impression that it constitutes a parenthesis that could be removed without altering the rest of the story. Moreover, your protagonist should not get rid of their obstacles to move on to the next one. It is by getting rid of their obstacles - either by overcoming them or bypassing them - that the protagonist creates new obstacles for the future, as if they had set off an avalanche. Finally, remember that a long dramatic irony can also serve to unify a series of sketches.

... and crescendo

The second important principle to respect is to reserve the strongest conflicts for the end. That is, to build a crescendo. This can consist of proposing more and more obstacles or conflicts, in quality as well as in quantity, but it can also be a relationship between two characters that gradually degenerates. When a character accumulates resentment stamps and fills their vase, you clearly feel a rise towards overflow. It's a form of crescendo. 'Alien,' 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers,' 'Rambo,' and 'The Towering Inferno' offer four beautiful examples of crescendo in the category of plot stories. 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest' is a fine example in the category of character stories. The further we go in the second act, the more the institutions that MacMurphy (Jack Nicholson) faces respond with violence. 'Mustang' also offers a magnificent crescendo. The film tells how five sisters (Günes Nezihe Sensoy, Daga Zeynep Doguslu, Tugba Sunguroglu, Elit Iscan, Ilayda Akdogan) suffer the weight of traditions in Turkey. The further we go, the more confinement is imposed on the girls. They are veiled, computers and phones are confiscated, traditional teaching replaces school, the girls are forcibly married one after the other, the house is increasingly barricaded, and the consequences become tragic.

The combination of evolution and crescendo creates a "snowball" effect, giving an impression of escalation that is both logical and rewarding for the viewer. It starts with a tiny match and, little by little, the house is on fire. Or, if you prefer, it starts with a sigh and ends with an orgasm. 'The Chase' offers a beautiful example of the first metaphor (the fire).

::>'<!\! res sum ig_n ourJ c_èn_e-_à_-_sc_è_n_e

1. Plan as little exposition as possible and spread it over the entire work. We will return to this in chapter 10.

2. Think about providing rest periods in the middle of the action. For two reasons: a - to reinforce, by contrast, the strength of the obstacles, b - to give the viewer hope that the protagonist can achieve their goal. A rest period can be a gag, a moment of joy or happiness, a comedown scene, but also a local success, that is, a scene where the protagonist achieves their local goal.

3. Do not maintain a sustained pace throughout the second act, vary the effects, avoid monotony. For this, you have several tools: surprise, dramatic irony, false ally, mid-climax, subplot, etc. Frantisek Daniel had a beautiful image about this. A story, he said, should not make you think of "... and then... and then... and then..." but rather "... suddenly... moreover... and then... consequently... two years before... except that... all of a sudden... and then... meanwhile... nevertheless..."

The principle of contrast, which I refer to here (in 2 and 3) has a huge advantage: it keeps the receiver's attention. Living organisms tend to adapt to a situation, even negative. After a while, they no longer experience it as negatively as at the beginning. Thus, a viewer gets tired of constant conflict, even if this conflict is powerful. To stay alert, their brain needs relief, variations, ups and downs, bright moments, and dark moments. This contrast work can be done at all stages of creation, from writing to editing (in the case of cinema), through imaging. But the strongest breaks will be those that are inscribed in the scene-by-scene.

4. Start simple, with few characters and clear situations, and gradually complexify. Do not do like Molière in the first scene of 'Tartuffe' or like those soap operas that present fifteen characters from the first episode - and keep them in the following ones.

5. If you want to convey narrative information at a moment in the story, avoid designing a scene just for that. See if the information can be inserted into an already existing scene. In short, kill two or three birds with one stone. Beyond three strokes, you risk a lack of unity in the scene.

On excess

Do not hesitate to go very far. Dare, impress yourself! If you find an idea that makes you say: "Oh no, it's too much, it will never pass," you might be onto something. Maybe. Some claim that in all circumstances, excess is insignificant. This is probably true in life, where truth is often found in the middle, in moderation. Even if, in terms of excess, life often surpasses fiction - we will come back to this. But it is manifestly false in art. Great authors, from Shakespeare to Almodovar, from Molière to Hitchcock, through Brecht, Lubitsch, or Bergman, are excessive. And, manifestly, it has worked for them.

In 'The Heart is a Lonely Hunter' or 'Oedipus Rex,' the protagonist blinds himself. In 'The Unknown,' Alonzo (Lon Chaney) has both arms amputated to marry the woman he loves. In 'The Ballad of Narayama,' Orin (Kinuyo Tanaka) does not hesitate to break her teeth to appear older. In 'The Sex of Angels,' Meo (Paolo Ferrari) agrees to be castrated. In 'Desire Under the Elms,' a mother kills her infant. One could accumulate examples, especially in comedy. Because it is the treatment that goes the furthest. If you think about it, who would dare, in life, to change their sexual identity to get a job (cf. 'Some Like It Hot,' 'Tootsie,' or 'Victor Victoria')? Or do what the protagonists of 'To Be or Not to Be' do?

If you should not hesitate to be excessive from time to time, you must nevertheless avoid being so all the time. Going very far means starting from a point, generally normal, to arrive at another, paroxysmal. Otherwise, due to lack of contrast, you get overexcited and hysterical works.

Excess is surely one of the secrets of the success of American cinema2. If excess causes Americans, and sometimes the rest of the planet, many problems, it is clear that, in the field of cinema, it is a formidable asset. Truffaut [84] understood this well. Despite his realistic temperament, he declared wanting to film paroxysms.

2. The other secrets, in my opinion, are having a very developed Free Child and having understood and assimilated three truths from the birth of cinema: a - it is a business for the story, b - it is a very powerful cultural vector, c - it is also an industry.
Some might say there are more measured authors: Taniguchi, Kiarostami, Sarraute, Chekhov, etc. It's interesting to note that they can afford this because they are rare. They are the exceptions that prove the rule. Moreover, the restraint of these authors might only be apparent. Characters unable to live in the present moment (The Three Sisters), who tear each other apart over a simple intonation (For No Good Reason), who seek someone to help them commit suicide (The Taste of Cherry), or who wait for their father to die to take an interest in him (My Father’s Journal), are they really that measured? Excessive doesn't mean agitated and spectacular. Character traits can be as exaggerated as situations. And then, as we've seen, all comedy is excess. That of Jerry Lewis, obviously, but also that of Jacques Tati or Eduardo De Filippo.

Comedy Technique
Precisely, if you're writing a comedy or your story contains comedic elements, it's advisable to work on it from the scene-by-scene stage. This will be the best way to achieve situational and character comedy, which is infinitely more desirable than relying solely on slapstick and jokes, which can always be added later. Even silent film clowns, who started their careers with sketches, understood the need for structural work when they moved to feature films. In my mind, there is situational comedy when the comedy is created by the context. In other words, the gag—the element that makes you laugh—is necessarily a payoff. When, in Life is Beautiful, Guido (Roberto Benigni) translates the German corporal's (Hannes Hellmann) instructions in a completely fanciful way, it's situational comedy. It can even be produced by dialogue, a payoff dialogue in this case. Osgood's "Nobody's perfect" in Some Like It Hot is situational comedy.

For character comedy, the gag must be linked to the characterization of a character. In The Dinner Game, Pignon (Jacques Villeret) pretends to be a Belgian producer to find out where his host's (Thierry Lhermitte) wife is. He makes his interlocutor believe he wants to acquire the rights to a novel to adapt it into a film. He gets so caught up in his role that he forgets his mission. The highlight is when he hangs up. He still doesn't know where his host's wife is, but he's proud to have secured the rights.

Mockery, Displacement, and Detachment
Other suggestions for creating comedy.
1. Mock your characters. Comedy is inherently mockery. Be careful, the word "mock" is not to be taken in the sometimes pejorative sense it is given. There are several forms of mockery. Mocking others doesn't necessarily mean taking them for fools who understand nothing. Sure, one can mock someone to humiliate or devalue them. But one can also mock someone to help them improve. "The duty of comedy is to correct men by entertaining them," explains Molière in the first placet of Tartuffe. Or mock with compassion, to console the other. Yes, yes, console them. Compassionate mockery is a way of saying to the other: "Welcome to the club, we are all brothers in misfortune." It's a solidarity mockery.
2. Stage failure, make your characters stumble. Schematically, serious drama can be considered as overcoming a series of increasing obstacles. The protagonist doesn't reach their goal immediately but gets closer. In comedy, the first wall is already too high for the protagonist. Not only must they try another, but it gets worse. Staging comedic failure is telling the characters: "Give up, you're ridiculous." And since, inevitably, the characters don't give up right away, as they don't always realize they're ridiculous, they give us plenty of material for comedy.
3. Show that the characters believe in it. They have trivial obsessions, grotesque limitations, but it absorbs them. In other words, they have no perspective on themselves or what happens to them. This rule also applies to actors, who must play comedy as seriously as possible, staying at face value. Actors who play humorous situations with a wink to the audience, as if to say "See how funny I am?" or "Don't be fooled, I'm not that stupid," spoil a good part of the show.
4. Create distance, detachment. Distance (spatial or temporal) concerns two people: the author and the spectator.
4a. Creating distance for the author means not taking oneself seriously, nor life, nor others. It also means mocking one's work, mocking the characters and situations one has invented.
4b. Creating distance for the spectator means avoiding suffering. When you watch fall videos, have you noticed that some make you burst out laughing while others make you wince? Those that make you wince always involve falls where you fear the victim got hurt. Certainly, comedy implies conflict. Inevitably. Comedy thrives on human limitations, hence life's difficulties. But one cannot laugh at a conflicting element if one feels compassion for the victim of the conflict, if one identifies with them. To laugh, one needs detachment.
4c. Maintaining the spectator's distance also involves creating one or more dramatic ironies (frank ones). It's no coincidence that dramatic irony is omnipresent in comedy.
5. Create displacements. Along with detachment, it's the second magical ingredient of comedy. Generally, this process is not conscious. Authors with a sense of humor do it without realizing it. But it can be useful to know the principle. When writing The Fugitives, Francis Veber had a scene where the protagonists go to find a doctor to treat one of them. He didn't find it funny. And for good reason: the doctor acted normally. Until one day Veber had the idea to replace the doctor with a veterinarian, creating a comedic displacement. If Veber had thought "displacement" when he was stuck on his scene, he might not have been stuck for weeks.
5. Exploit everything, up to the topper. Milking, this tool that involves exploiting what you've set up, making the most of everything, often leads to comedy.
More developments on comedy in chapter 9 of Dramaturgy.

Fiction or Reality, Which Surpasses the Other?
It's often said that "fiction surpasses reality." Uh... or is it rather the opposite? I think fiction has the obligation to surpass average reality, that of "normal" people or "normal" situations, and it often succeeds. However, it struggles to be as strong as the extreme cases of life. To be convinced, just look at news stories or the hilarious Darwin Awards, which annually reward the most extreme and stupid real situations (www.darwinawards.com).
For example, the farmer who seals his head in a plastic bag to avoid being stung by bees and ends up suffocating. Or the man who comes to pick up ID photos, suddenly decides to rob the photographer, and flees, forgetting his photos on the counter. Or the alcoholic who, after a fight, arrives at the emergency room with a bloody stomach. He's so violent that they have to tie him securely to a stretcher. He then grabs his lighter to try to burn the straps, Rambo-style, only to set his stretcher on fire and end up in the burn unit. A few years ago in Eastern Europe, a fortune teller announced to a man that he or his son would soon die. The man committed suicide out of fear that the prediction would target his son.
This incredible story—as they say—is true. It's clear that a "normal" man who, like most people, would place very limited trust in a fortune teller's predictions, wouldn't make a good fictional character. He'd be too moderate. But does that mean the one who committed suicide would work? As soon as characterization, action, or a series of circumstances seem exaggerated, either the spectator doesn't believe it, or the author must prepare it to make it plausible, thereby diminishing its impact. And once again, reality proves stronger than all the world's fictions. Sometimes, the only solution is to warn at the beginning of the work: "Based on a true story."

If You Want to Deconstruct
In recent years, the trend has been towards deconstructed narratives. The beginning is placed at the end and vice versa, or there are endless flashbacks, or everything is mixed up. The motivations seem diverse. Deconstruction can be imposed by the subject and produce beautiful successes. This is the case, in my opinion, with Memento. Some authors may also want to play with the spectator. They offer us a puzzle and ask us to participate. This is the case with 21 Grams. All this seems commendable to me. But deconstruction sometimes resembles a smokescreen, an admission of impotence, or even a sign (often relevant) of a lack of confidence in their narrative—we've already discussed this on pages 45-46.
Two remarks about deconstruction. Before deconstructing, you must construct. Before mixing, you must have something to mix. In other words, finish your scene-by-scene before blowing everything up like a puzzle. Moreover, consider that the highest degree of comedy, namely situational comedy, accommodates very poorly with deconstruction. Probably because it's better to place a payoff after its setup than the reverse. Imagine The Dinner Game, City Lights, or To Be or Not to Be out of order; it would be a mess.

There is a highly instructive film on this subject, Three Burials, written by one of the masters of deconstruction: Guillermo Arriaga. There are two very distinct parts in the film. The first half follows the completely fragmented principle of 21 Grams. It seems a bit gratuitous—or a bit systematic for those who have already seen Amores Perros and 21 Grams—probably because there are fewer important characters than in those two films. As for the second half of Three Burials, which offers fewer strong dramatic knots and is more subtle, it's symptomatic that it's told in order. When you start delving into the intimate and the big twists become scarce, it becomes difficult to mix everything up.

Although for Your Eyes
To conclude on the scene-by-scene, I strongly advise against having it read by anyone. Or at least, by someone who knows nothing about your project. Because a rigorously written scene-by-scene is very dry and impossible to understand for a reader discovering the project. Reserve your scene-by-scene for those who have followed the development from the beginning: your co-authors if you have any, the members of the writing workshop you participate in, possibly your producer.

THREE SCENE-BY-SCENE EXCERPTS
First Act of the Scene-by-Scene of Witness Couple
1. XAVIER, 37, and GAËLLE, 32, run a matchmaking agency and proudly display their couple. They select clients based on their genuine romantic motivations. Then they help them enhance themselves. To please, one must also appear.
2. A 70-year-old widow, MME VARNIER-DUVAL-LE GUEN, registers with the agency hoping to find her fourth husband.
3. In a month, Xavier and Gaëlle will celebrate both their 10th wedding anniversary and the agency's 10th anniversary. Xavier is in control, and Gaëlle obeys.
4. Gaëlle pretends to Xavier that she's taking pottery classes. In fact, she has a lover, JEAN-FRANÇOIS, 35, a jovial and somewhat wild man.
5. Xavier and Gaëlle showcase themselves as a model couple and host a dinner-meeting in front of clients. Xavier gives a lecture on trust. Gaëlle plays along. The act is well-rehearsed.

6. Xavier discovers that Gaëlle's pottery is "Made in Taiwan." He doesn't understand. And the trust? Why did she make him believe she was taking classes if she's not interested?
7. Xavier discovers that Gaëlle has a lover. He is devastated.
8. Xavier is determined to keep up appearances. While waiting to win Gaëlle back.

First Act of the Scene-by-Scene of The 12th Man
1. CLAUDE (6 years old) discovers the world of football with wonder alongside her father, CHARLES RETZ (41 years old). On the field, GEORGES (18 years old), Claude's brother, is the star of the day and Charles's pride. The coach is FRANCK MARCANTONI (40 years old).
2. Claude has been motherless since birth. She wishes to be as admired by her father as her brother Georges is.
3. Charles is a metallurgical unionist, president of FC Ougrée, an amateur football club. He lives in the memory of his late wife, a passionate advocate of the union struggle. Claude drinks in her father's words about this woman he adorns with all qualities and whom she never knew.
4. Claude has become a football fan. She manages to join the group of boys in her neighborhood and plays football with them.
5. Claude is now 13 years old. She has become the best player in her club, she is extremely passionate and aware of the limited future that women's football can offer her.
6. Franck Marcantoni, former coach of Georges turned internationally renowned coach, is sentenced to prison and community service for match-fixing.
7. As a footballer, Claude has obvious technical and tactical qualities. But her pride and need to control everything play tricks on her.
8. Following a defeat, Claude is unjustly kicked out of her boys' team. Only BRUNO, her childhood friend, supports her. Some boys display machismo. The age limit for mixed teams (15 years) is soon reached for Claude.
9. As club president, Charles refuses to intervene to reinstate his daughter. It's up to her to fight if she wants to rejoin the boys' team. That said, Charles thinks Claude should join women's football.
10. Disheartened, angry at the world, Claude has a vision: she plays in a packed stadium before being carried in triumph by a male team, a trophy in hand.

11. Claude declares to her father that she wants to become a professional player, which is impossible in the women's league. Charles doesn't believe it at all.

First Act of the Scene-by-Scene of Culbuto
1. Introduction of MAXIME LAVILLE, 37 years old. He suffers from a motor regulation disorder since childhood, making him extremely clumsy, randomly. He is also very sensitive and cannot stand being laughed at. This has already cost him more than one romantic relationship.
2. Maxime earns his living as a healthy volunteer at the Clinical Investigation Center (CIC) run by ANTOINE (40 years old). He lives alone in a dilapidated studio with a lab mouse (GÉLULE).
3. At the CIC, Maxime meets NATACHA, 30 years old, a new nurse. Love at first sight.
4. Maxime is attracted to Natacha and, at the same time, afraid of suffering.
5. Maxime learns that Natacha is not a nurse but an actress.
6. Maxime goes to see Natacha at a cultural center where she performs an adaptation of The Government Inspector. He returns several times. The audience is sparse.
7. Maxime meets HANS, the director, 57 years old, confident and charming.
8. Maxime has a plan: invite Natacha to dinner, tête-à-tête, but without revealing his feelings.
9. To afford the chic restaurant, Maxime participates in a new test protocol in Switzerland.

THE TREATMENT

"You must first sketch a general outline, then introduce episodes and develop."
(Aristotle)
"... the story of the screenwriter who racked his brains to concisely show how a forty-year-old and his wife were no longer in love. He finally found it. The couple enters an elevator. He keeps his hat on. At the next stop, a woman enters the elevator. The man immediately removes his hat. That's exemplary cinematic writing. I would have made it four pages. What this guy found takes a few seconds."
(Raymond Chandler)
As we've seen, the scene-by-scene allows you to work on the overall structure of the story. Once the scene-by-scene is not only completed but matured, you can move from the general to the local. I invite you to do this work in two stages. The first stage will concern the "how" (with the treatment) while the second stage will be devoted to the nuances, details, and plausibility brought by the dialogues (with the dialogue continuity).
The first step of the adaptation consists, for each scene, in determining the best way to convey its content. What conflict, what situation, what character, what setting, what payoff, what activity will best show that "Mrs. Dupont is greedy"? This results in an enriched scene-by-scene called "treatment" or "non-dialogue continuity." As this latter name indicates, this stage does not include dialogue, or very little.

LOCAL FOUNDATIONS
We've seen that most scenes in the scene-by-scene can be presented as a local pitch. In the transition to the treatment, you can do foundational work for each local pitch as you did for the entire work. I concede that it might be tedious to conceive all the local foundations for each scene. But I strongly encourage you to find at least the setting, the protagonist, the central conflict, and the climax of each scene. And, if possible, one or two meaningful activities. And all this before writing a single line of treatment.

Examples of Transition from Scene-by-Scene to Treatment
Imagine your main characters are young students and your scene-by-scene indicates this: "Charlotte asks Kevin not to dump her. He insists and tells her he might come back to her if she changes." A lazy screenwriter would show Charlotte going to find Kevin on the street or at the end of a class. She would ask him not to dump her. They might have a conflictual exchange. And Kevin would end up saying: "I might come back to you if you change." In this case, the transition from scene-by-scene to treatment adds nothing, and everything relies on the dialogues. Now imagine Charlotte and Kevin are in a German class at a certain distance from each other. Charlotte gets caught by the teacher passing a little handwritten note. She asks Kevin not to abandon her. In front of the whole class, the teacher forces Charlotte to translate the note into German. Charlotte complies. Then the teacher forces Kevin to respond. In front of everyone and in German, Kevin suggests Charlotte signal him when she has changed. I'm sure you can be even more creative, but at least in this second configuration, 1 - an arena has been exploited, 2 - Charlotte has shown resourcefulness, and 3 - conflict has been added, which probably made her character more endearing. In short, the scene has gained by transitioning from scene-by-scene to treatment.

Let's take another example: the first appearance of an important character in The Toy. In the scene-by-scene, it would read: "François Perrin discovers President Rambal-Cochet, whom he has heard so much about: a stinking CEO feared by all his employees." In treatment version: "In the courtyard of the Rambal-Cochet factory, tables have been set up on trestles for an open-air lunch. The employees have already started eating because the CEO has announced he would be late. Suddenly, his car stops at the back of the courtyard. Everyone stands up respectfully. He is escorted to his seat, which is at the end of the table. Without a word, Rambal-Cochet sits down and, instead of pulling his chair closer to the end of the table, grabs the board and pulls it a good meter towards him, causing confusion among the diners. Then he eats, satisfied, indifferent to others, while the diners juggle plates and glasses without daring to complain." This insane gesture characterizes Rambal-Cochet in seconds as no succession of dialogues could.

Final example, from Parenthood. In the scene-by-scene, one might simply read: "Susan announces to Nathan that she's leaving him." An unworthy screenwriter would conceive a classic breakup scene with lots of dialogue, possibly a raised voice and some tears. Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel exploited the characterization of the characters, which is not ordinary. Indeed, Nathan (Rick Moranis) and his wife Susan (Harley Kozak) are trying to make their 4-year-old daughter (Ivyann Schwan) a little genius. But Susan finds that the child is not well-balanced and that Nathan is going too far. She begins to detach from her husband's educational principles. Problem is, he's so busy that she has trouble talking to him about it. One day, while Nathan is having their daughter recognize chemical symbols on cards, Susan offers him a new set of cards. Very interested, Nathan starts reading them: 1 - This is, 2 - the only way, 3 - to get, 4 - your attention. Nathan protests: their daughter is well above this kind of cards. Then he continues reading: 5 - I'm leaving you. Nathan looks at his wife, stunned and incredulous, and says: "You're leaving me?!" Susan shows him one last card: 6 - Yes.

You understand, moving from "what" to "how" involves, among other things, exploiting and even milking what you've set up, particularly the arena and the characterization of your characters. It also involves being creative. An exercise given in some screenwriting schools is called "I'm pregnant." It involves writing a scene in which a woman announces to her partner that she's expecting a child from him. The scene must not resemble the thousands of similar scenes already existing in the repertoire. The first volume of the series The Old Geezers contains a delightful one. Using a treasure hunt, the future mother leads the future father to discover a puppet in a drawer, but he doesn't understand the metaphor and only worries that his underwear has disappeared from the drawer.

Double "How"
In the transition from scene-by-scene to treatment, it may happen that you don't ask yourself how to convey this or that narrative element but rather how a character will go about achieving their local goal. It's not just you who must be creative, your character must be too.
One of the dramatic knots of "Some Like It Hot" could be summarized as follows: "Joe, disguised as a Shell company heir, takes Sugar on Osgood's yacht and seduces her." No need to say more in a scene-by-scene. Now put yourself in the shoes of Billy Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond. Their mission is to find the best way to handle this dramatic knot. They must first respect the situation and the characterization of the characters. The essence of the situation lies in the fact that Joe is not a billionaire at all and does not know the yacht on which he has taken Sugar. The essence of Sugar's characterization was established at the beginning of the second act. She explained to Joe (then disguised as Josephine) that she was tired of men who take advantage of her, grope her, and always end up taking money from her. Since Sugar is already half-conquered by Joe, one can easily imagine what a weak or lazy screenwriter would have done with this scene. Here is what Wilder and Diamond proposed. It's a summary of the scene as it might appear in a treatment.

"Joe takes Sugar on Osgood's yacht using a motorboat. But since he doesn't know how to use it, he goes in reverse. On the yacht, which he awkwardly passes off as his own, Joe makes Sugar understand that he is heart-disabled due to emotional trauma. He has tried everything to cure his handicap: Freud, Balinese dancers, everything, but in vain. Sugar is touched. It makes her want to help Joe. She kisses him to see if it has any effect. Joe pretends to be insensitive. Sugar insists. Joe eventually gives in."

In the middle of "In Her Eyes," a policeman (Ricardo Darin) and an investigating judge (Soledad Villamil) try to make the presumed culprit of a heinous sexual crime (Javier Godino) confess. The man is tough. How to credibly push him to confess? The scene-by-scene could simply indicate: "Irene and Benjamin make Gómez confess," but when it comes to the treatment, a satisfying "how" must be found. The authors found a trick that involves Ericksonian hypnosis. Irene arrives in the office where Benjamin is interrogating Gómez. She sizes him up and asserts that he cannot be the rapist-murderer. Because Gómez is clearly a runt, he couldn't have had the strength and especially the sexual power to do what was done to the victim. Gómez can't stand these attacks on his virility and ends up, after brooding, betraying himself.

No dramatic question before the inciting incident. Since conflict is the indispensable tool for any good narrative, it must also be included in the first act, even when the action hasn't started. The operation is particularly delicate before the inciting incident. You need to present static rather than dynamic conflicts. Routine rather than exceptional conflicts. And resolved conflicts. Without this last condition, you risk establishing a strong objective before the protagonist's general objective, which can confuse the viewer. For the same reason, be careful with all dramatic knots, even trivial ones, that disrupt the future protagonist's routine life and may give the viewer the impression that they've encountered the major inciting incident.

Resolving a local conflict means not posing a long-term dramatic question. The protagonist of the scene abandons their objective at the end of the scene. Either because they have achieved it or because they give up on achieving it. If, for example, two characters try to convince each other in a first-act scene and fail, it's better to end with: "Oh well, to each their own" than with: "It won't happen like that!" In the latter case, it's understood that one of the characters hasn't given up their objective, and it already gives direction to the story. It can be risky.

The two emotional questions that can be launched before the inciting incident are the trajectory question if there is one—the "need" before the "want," as our American friends say—and the ironic question, if it doesn't launch another action than the one planned. When two questions of this type are posed, the receiver unconsciously knows that they still need to learn the dramatic question to embark on the story.

Favor activity. Don't hesitate to spend time searching for meaningful activity. Don't keep saying: "The dialogue will take care of it." In theater, many playwrights delight in words and leave it to directors to handle the activity. Playwrights would benefit from being less verbose, more visual, and also more descriptive, meaning doing a minimum of staging on paper—without going so far as to indicate on which step a character should be, as in some texts by Feydeau.

Exploit your local arenas. If a scene can take place in a hotel room, why set it at the top of the Eiffel Tower? Of course, it's always nice to vary the settings. The viewer is sensitive to it. But the setting can seem gratuitous or, worse, distract from the scene. The ideal is to find the setting that adds something to the scene. In other words, if you insist on the top of the Eiffel Tower, you must exploit it. In "When Harry Met Sally," there is a scene where Harry (Billy Crystal) listens to a friend (Bruno Kirby) recounting his troubles. It's a pure dialogue scene (like most scenes in the film) that Nora Ephron chose to set in a stadium. The two friends are sitting in the middle of the crowd, in front of an American football game. From time to time, a wave of ola shakes the stadium: the crowd stands and sits, raising their arms. Mechanically, Harry and his friend do the same without conviction, while continuing to talk, creating an amusing discrepancy.

Sometimes, the setting is imposed by the scene. This is the case in the "Some Like It Hot" example above. Joe made Sugar believe he owned Osgood's yacht, he promised to take her there. The scene cannot take place elsewhere. But sometimes, the setting remains to be found. The scene between Harry and his friend (When Harry Met Sally) could take place anywhere. Rather than doing like Nora Ephron, choosing a stadium and gently exploiting it, imagine a setting that will bring additional conflict to your protagonist. Like the language lab, in the scene between Charlotte and Kevin above.

B. AVOID DEUS EX MACHINA AND CONVENIENCES
A deus ex machina is a narrative element that comes to help the protagonist and gives the unpleasant impression of appearing out of nowhere. In reality, the viewer senses that this element doesn't come out of nowhere but from the author's hat, making it even more unpleasant. In a broad sense, a deus ex machina is any convenience that suits the author.

Managing the aids and solutions for the protagonist is a significant part of our activity. There are several ways to avoid a deus ex machina. The most radical solution is to ensure that the help comes from the protagonist themselves and not from outside. Any protagonist worthy of the name finds within themselves the resources to get out of trouble.

That said, unless you're called MacGyver (MacGyver), a protagonist can't do everything, provoke a solar eclipse, resurrect their neighbor, or master nuclear fission overnight. Here are some techniques to avoid conveniences. Note: Some can be combined.

1. Preparation. Prepare the help. Preparation is the great antidote to deus ex machina. In the middle of "The Great Dictator," the little Jewish barber (Charles Chaplin) is in a bad spot; Tomanian soldiers are about to hang him. He owes his salvation to the last-minute intervention of a Tomanian officer, Schultz (Reginald Gardiner). Deus ex machina? Not quite. Because the barber had saved Schultz's life at the beginning of the film. In "The Temple of the Sun," the eclipse that saves the protagonists was prepared by Hergé. Tintin finds a newspaper clipping announcing it and requests that his execution be scheduled for that date.

Even more radical: the magic potion of Asterix—which, to say the least, often helps our protagonists—is part of the very premises of the series. René Goscinny even had the intelligence to make it the subject of the first three albums. In "Asterix the Gaul," the Romans try to discover the secret of the magic potion. In "The Golden Sickle," Asterix and Obelix seek an essential tool for making the magic potion. And in "Asterix and the Goths," the protagonists strive to find the druid who makes their magic potion and who has been kidnapped by the Goths. After these three albums, the magic potion becomes an obvious fact that no one would think to question. It will be noted that Goscinny then endeavored to tell stories where the magic potion is unnecessary (cf. "Asterix in Britain," "Asterix and the Cauldron," "Asterix and the Normans," "The Soothsayer," "The Great Divide," etc.). Because he knows that, magic potion or not, it's not enough to help his protagonists; obstacles must also be placed in their path. Gene Roddenberry had the same problem with the all-powerful technology he had set up for Star Trek.

Don't just prepare the help. You must also make this preparation discreet, in other words, not create a phone. Then, when the preparation pays off, the protagonist must not let themselves be saved without doing anything. Make them active and continue to make them experience conflict.

2. Inversion. Put the help before the viewer is aware of the problem. In "Three Days of the Condor," Turner (Robert Redford) returns home. He is stopped at the foot of the building by his concierge (Carol Gustafson), who reveals the presence of individuals in his apartment.

Turner guesses that the individuals in question mean him no good and decides to flee. He thus avoids an obstacle thanks to the concierge. But this help is not felt as a deus ex machina because it occurs at the very moment we learn there is an obstacle. It is clear that if we had been informed of the threatening presence of the killers in the apartment before Turner returned home, the concierge's intervention would have been less well accepted.

Another trick, in "A Knight's Tale," William (Heath Ledger), a roofer by trade, pretends to be a knight to participate in tournaments. Problem, he will need letters of nobility proving his status. If the author puts a public writer on his path capable of forging documents, we have a nice deus ex machina. In the film, Brian Helgeland creates the encounter between William and a man named Chaucer (Paul Bettany) at a time when there is no conflict to resolve. Only afterward do we learn that Chaucer is a writer, and it is he himself who later informs the protagonist that he will need letters of nobility proving his lineage over several generations. He then offers to take care of it in exchange for clothes, food, and protection.

Of course, this principle of inversion cannot be systematic, as it amounts to answering the local dramatic question at the moment it is posed. We cannot resolve all conflicts before they even arise, otherwise, nothing happens.

3. Justification by the past. Go into a flashback that explains where the help will come from and justifies it. Be careful, it is important to show that the help is the consequence of elements planted earlier. In "The Secret of My Success," the process doesn't work. Bradley (Michael Fox) is in a dead end. Very short flashback: a few days earlier, his mother (Elizabeth Franz) gave him something to get by, just in case. Too easy, the viewer thinks. It's as if the mother had foreseen that her son would need her. Episode 3.2 of "Battlestar Galactica" uses the process more effectively. At the beginning, several co-protagonists are about to be executed. A card announces: "One hour earlier." Then starts a ten-minute flashback that describes what happened on the sidelines of the main action and justifies the presence of a rescue team at the time of execution.

4. From bad to worse. Put the protagonist in a situation as terrible or even more terrible than the one from which you just saved them, or which at least seems more terrible while in fact, it will be easier to resolve (for the protagonist as well as for the author). In other words,

make it seem like your character is doing like those ships, in the Strait of Messina, that threw themselves on the rocks of Scylla to avoid the Charybdis whirlpool. If, for example, our protagonist collapses from exhaustion in the middle of the desert—cf. the end of "The Tiger of Bengal"—the unprepared arrival of a caravan of kind merchants at the beginning of the next episode (cf. "The Indian Tomb") is a deus ex machina. But the unprepared arrival of a helicopter full of villains who are delighted to get their hands on our hero to torture him is a disguised deus ex machina.

In "The Frozen North," the protagonist (Buster Keaton) is in a canoe filling with water and about to sink. Suddenly, a submarine surfaces where the protagonist is and thus saves his life. But the submarine is actually a target on which an army of destroyers is about to fire! In "A Yankee Named Blueberry," Blueberry is accused by Northerners of being a double spy. He is to be executed at dawn. He is saved by Harriet, his ex-fiancée, but not because she still loves Blueberry. On the contrary, she wants to find him to avenge her father's death and kill Blueberry with her own hands.

In "Some Like It Hot," the murder of Spats (George Raft) by Little Bonaparte (Nehemiah Persoff) can be seen as a deus ex machina since it removes the threat of Spats from the protagonists. But the protagonists witness this second massacre (after that of the inciting incident) and are still being chased, this time by Little Bonaparte's men.

5. Announced danger. Variant of the previous principle, introduce a dramatic irony (diffuse or frank) on the help to let us understand that the deus ex machina holds unpleasant surprises. It may solve the problem in the short term, but danger lurks.

6. Refusal of help. Another variant of the "From Charybdis to Scylla" principle, make the protagonist categorically refuse the convenience. Their first reaction must be: "Never that!" or "No thanks, especially not!" First, we will understand that the deus ex machina does not delight the protagonist and is therefore also a source of conflict for them. Second, we will guess that they will eventually adopt it, which will soften its effect.

7. Humiliating. Yet another variant of the "From Charybdis to Scylla" principle, make the rescue be experienced as an obstacle. In "Gotham Central," which narrates investigations conducted by Gotham City police officers, Batman's interventions are vexing for the protagonists when they can't manage on their own. "I hate that we need him," says Inspector Marcus Driver in "Dead Robin 3" (Gotham Central episode 35).

8. Comedy. Exaggerate the situation to lean towards comedy. Because it better supports deus ex machina than serious treatment. Improbable successes, for example, are much more acceptable in a Buster Keaton film than in a dark adventure film. The gag of the axe in "Jumanji," described in "Dramaturgy," is a humorous way to disguise a deus ex machina. The albums of the "Imbattable" series, in which Pascal Jousselin plays with the layout to "justify" the exploits of his superhero, exploit a comedic spring.

9. Attachment. Make sure the viewer wants so much for the protagonist to get out of trouble that they become ready to accept all wonders. (Note: I reveal the ending of "E.T.") At the end of the second act, the extraterrestrial dies. We are almost as devastated as young Elliott (Henry Thomas). When E.T.'s chest lights up again, it must be recognized that it's a little miracle. We forgive this convenience to the authors because our childlike heart cannot bear for the story to end with the death of a beloved character and the infinite sadness of three kids. It will be noted that, very cleverly, Melissa Mathison creates a little dramatic irony at the moment the miracle occurs: Elliott does not realize that E.T.'s heart has revived, he begins to leave the place. Instead of saying to ourselves: "A bit easy, the miracle," we think: "Oh no! Elliott is going to leave E.T. to suffocate in his refrigerated container." And we wish for a quick resolution of the dramatic irony.

10. After the action. Make the convenience intervene in the local third act. In "The Bridge on the River Kwai," the commando's radio no longer works. Shears (William Holden) gives up trying to make it work—thus abandoning his local objective and entering his local third act—and kicks the radio in frustration, saying everything is rotten. This gets the radio working again. Hergé uses the same principle in "The Red Sea Sharks" to make the "Ramona's" radio work. In "The African Queen," the miracle of the rain occurs in the general third act, after the protagonists have abandoned their objective and are ready to die. Rosie (Katharine Hepburn) has even said her prayer.

11. Cheat. Make the help appear as the voluntary intervention of one of the characters. At the beginning of the first season of "Six Feet Under," the Fishers are prey to a large group (Kroehner) that wants to absorb their family funeral business. To this end, Kroehner has bought an old mansion located right across from the Fishers' offices. They plan to open a funeral home there to compete with the Fishers. At the end of episode 1.3, the mansion in question is on fire, and everything suggests to the viewer that it was Claire Fisher (Lauren Ambrose) who set the fire. As a result, Kroehner gives up their "takeover" and the police conclude it was an accidental fire. In the following episodes, we discover that Claire had nothing to do with it, so it was indeed an opportune help. A bit easy, then, but the impression of deus ex machina was avoided at the time of the events.

12. Red herring. In episode 1.6 of "The Americans," the protagonists (Soviet spies (Keri Russell, Matthew Rhys) installed incognito on American soil) are kidnapped and tortured. Their identity has been discovered, they are in a very bad spot, and one might legitimately wonder how they will get out without the help of a deus ex machina. Plot twist: it was an operation conducted by the KGB (thus, their own bosses), who wanted to check that their agents were reliable. The intense conflict was therefore a red herring. If the red herring is credible, at the time of the plot twist, the viewer does not think it's cheating. They are even delighted.

13. Enormity. Save your protagonist with a gigantic (but nevertheless credible) plot twist that changes the characters' motivations. At the end of "Apocalypto" (Note: What follows reveals an important moment of the film), Jaguar Paw (Rudy Youngblood) is wounded and pursued by two enemies (Richard Can, Carlos Ramos), determined to finish him off. All three emerge onto a beach and suddenly stop, stunned: Spanish caravels are anchored in the bay, and conquistadors are preparing to land. The event is so crazy for these Mayans that Jaguar Paw's two pursuers abandon their objective, allowing the protagonist to slip away.

14. At the beginning. Finally, if all the above hasn't helped you, at least put the deus ex machina earlier in the story. It won't solve the whole problem, but it's better to have help at a time when the viewer feels there will still be obstacles ahead than at a time when they know it's over.

C. THREE TREATMENT EXCERPTS
Same principle as for the foundations and the scene-by-scene, here is the first act of the treatments of "Couple Witness," "The 11th Man," and "Culbuta."

If you compare the scene-by-scene and the treatments, you will note that some scenes from the scene-by-scene have become several scenes in the treatment. This is normal. Sometimes, when moving from "what" to "how," it is necessary to break down the scene into several parts. The eight scenes of the first act of the scene-by-scene of "Couple Witness" have thus become twelve scenes in the treatment. The nine scenes of the first act of the scene-by-scene of "Culbuta" have increased to sixteen scenes in the treatment.

First act of the treatment of "Couple Witness"
1. In his office at Félicitas, his matchmaking agency, with walls decorated with photos presenting him happily with his wife, XAVIER, 37, serious and impeccably dressed, explains to a FUTURE CLIENT the philosophy of his agency: the agency's clients, nicknamed the B.A.D. (Soon To Be Two), are selected based on their real romantic motivations. Then they are helped to showcase themselves. To please, one must also appear. Xavier details the client's "romantic" resume, carefully questioning him about his dry or busy periods. The client hopes to soon be part of the B.A.D., as the seriousness and reliability of Félicitas are well established. Together, Xavier and the client criticize online dating sites that are unreliable and encourage secrecy.

2. Meanwhile, in her office at the agency (with the same photos of her model couple and, on a shelf, a row of clay jugs of dubious taste), GAËLLE, 32, pretty and well-groomed, has a new B.A.D. sign her contract: MRS. VARNIER-DUVAL-LE GUEN, a 70-year-old widow with a grandmotherly appearance. The old woman, after a makeover, will participate tonight in her first dinner with other new recruits. Mrs. Varnier-Duval-Le Guen is excited: will she meet her fourth husband? Together, Gaëlle and Mrs. Varnier-Duval-Le Guen criticize online dating sites that are unreliable and encourage secrecy.

3. In the meeting room of their agency, also decorated with photos of the couple witness taken over the years and bearing the mention "Realized without trickery," Xavier and Gaëlle prepare the invitation cards for the big anniversary party of their ten years of marriage and the ten years of the agency, which will take place in a month and will bring together former clients (the M.A.D., Now Two) and the B.A.D. Absorbed in his task, Xavier gives orders to Gaëlle and becomes impatient. It must be perfect. Used to her husband's demands, Gaëlle reassures him: everything will go well, as usual.
4. In a secluded corner of a floral park, Gaëlle, wearing dark glasses and a scarf over her hair, secretly meets her lover JEAN-FRANÇOIS, 35, with a booming laugh and the build of a mover. With a conspiratorial air, Jean-François hands his mistress her traditional alibi, a clay jug similar to those decorating Gaëlle's office. Then he gives her a pretty sweater in bright colors with a sweet note pinned to it. Happy but stressed, Gaëlle immediately tears up the note: what if Xavier found it! Mockingly, Jean-François retrieves the pieces of paper and swallows them, making them disappear forever.

5. Xavier and Gaëlle's bedroom is located just above the matchmaking agency. The room contains no photos of the couple. The decoration is simple and impersonal. Xavier tries to button his charcoal gray suit pants. In vain. He resolves to put on another pair, in a lighter shade. Then he descends the stairs and heads...

6. ...to his office at the agency. He lifts his leg to the height of a poster of his couple to compare the color of his pants to that in the series of photos: slight difference in shade. Xavier seems very annoyed. Gaëlle enters, radiant, wearing the colorful sweater given by her lover. Xavier chokes: what is this outfit? She must wear the traditional cream blouse from the photos! It's impossible to disappoint the B.A.D. Gaëlle protests then capitulates. Her husband then notices the new pottery she holds in her hand and sincerely marvels at his wife's rapid progress. She replies that she's becoming more and more addicted and leaves, slamming the door.

7. In the meeting room of the Felicitas agency, Xavier and Gaëlle, at aperitif time, display themselves as a model couple in front of about ten B.A.D. with a studied appearance, including Mme Varnier-Duval-Le Guen, transformed. According to a ritual unique to each dinner meeting, Xavier draws a paper from the pottery made by Gaëlle to launch the evening's debate. Tonight it falls on: "Living together, living better?" Transported by the subject, Xavier expresses his conception of the couple—trust, communication, honesty, etc.—without a glance at Gaëlle. She plays along with ease, supporting her husband's words or involving the B.A.D.

8. It's late. The B.A.D., then Gaëlle, have long gone to bed. In the meeting room, Xavier is still working on the preparations for the ten-year celebration. Exhausted with fatigue, he gets up, grabs his wife's pottery, and inspects it with an admiring whistle. Pottery in hand, he leaves the room and heads heavily toward Gaëlle's office. He places the pottery on the shelf next to his wife's other works. Suddenly the shelf collapses. Xavier is devastated, but miraculously, only two pieces of pottery are broken. Panicked, he begins to pick up the pieces to repair the damage. He freezes upon discovering the label "Made in China" on one of them. He searches for other clues among the debris, in vain. With a hard face, he grabs an intact piece of pottery and lets it fall coldly to the floor. A piece marked "Made in Taiwan" bounces off his shoe.

9. Xavier opens the bedroom door and turns on the light, waking Gaëlle. In a tragic tone, he announces that he has broken three jugs. Will she forgive him? How many hours of work has he destroyed? Gaëlle reassures him between yawns. She'll make more jugs, she has quite the technique now! Then she buries herself under the covers, leaving her husband frustrated.

10. Gaëlle, wearing a scarf and dark glasses, meets Jean-François at the floral park. He offers her a new piece of pottery. Xavier, who has followed his wife and spies on them from afar, doesn't understand what's happening. Suddenly, Gaëlle gives Jean-François a small kiss. Xavier can't believe it. Jean-François responds with a deep kiss, and Gaëlle lets him. Xavier collapses, devastated.

11. Xavier and Gaëlle are in bed, backs turned. They wish each other a weak goodnight. Seized by a sudden impulse, Xavier tenderly takes his wife in his arms. In a sleepy voice, she asks if he has broken another jug. Deflated, Xavier immediately lets her go.

12. In his office, Xavier looks drawn from a sleepless night. Distracted, he examines the invitations for Felicitas' ten-year anniversary presented by a former client, RAOUL VAUTRIN, in his fifties and somewhat roguish. Raoul is "very happy" with his wife. In two years, not a single argument, not a single infidelity. Despite himself, Xavier asks: not even a suspicion? After a moment of hesitation, Raoul answers no. The conversation drifts to the theme of adultery, discussed by the two men jokingly. Finally, Xavier reveals to Raoul what his strategy would be if Gaëlle cheated on him: first, he would save face; second, he would quietly work to break the affair and ensure everything returns to normal.

First Act of the Young Man's Treatment

1. CLAUDE RETZ, 6 years old, accompanies her father CHARLES (41 years old) to a football match. Her father is a fervent supporter and her older brother, GEORGES (18 years old), is one of the players on the field. It's a final day, the stadium is packed. The noise scares Claude. She is alone, sitting between her father's legs, who shouts his encouragement. Annoyed by Claude's crying, Charles finally lifts her onto his shoulders. Claude then discovers football with wonder. She takes in the spectacle, sees the vast field, the streamers, the flares, the stadium colored by the supporters' clothes. Suddenly Georges scores a goal a few seconds before the end of regulation time, giving victory to his team. The atmosphere turns delirious. Charles exults with the stadium.

2. The players celebrate the title on the field invaded by supporters. The coach FRANCK MARCANTONI (40 years old), moved, publicly thanks the whole team. The hero of the day, Georges, speaks and dedicates his victory to his deceased mother. Claude can read in her father's eyes the admiration he has for his son.

3. Back home, Claude asks her father questions about her mother. But Charles doesn't have time. He reminds Claude that he is the president of a metallurgists' union and a small amateur football club (FC Ougrée). He has work, appointments, obligations. Claude insists, she wants her father to talk about the mother she never knew. Charles gives in and paints an idealized portrait of her mother, a fighter who struggled in the union for workers' rights and never gave up, no matter the difficulty. Claude drinks in her father's words.

4. Sitting on a bench with her doll, Claude watches a street match between the sons of workers from the Ougrée neighborhood. Claude broods, no one wants her on the team. During an unfortunate shot, the boys lose the ball. As they are ready to abandon the game, Claude tears the head off her doll and offers it as a replacement ball. But she demands her presence on a team. The boys agree.

5. Seven years have passed. CLAUDE, 13 years old, plays on a boys' team, in her father's club. She knows more than him about strategy and tactics. She gives him advice for the next match, crucial for the championship's continuation. Charles knows his daughter won't be able to play with boys much longer. He talks to her about her future in women's football. Claude wants nothing to do with it. She wants to play with the boys to the end. She analyzes women's football: no resources, no professional players, so no future for her.

6. As Claude is on her way to the decisive match of the season with her father and brother Georges, they learn on the radio that Franck, Georges' former coach turned internationally renowned coach, is sentenced to prison and community service for match-fixing.

7. Football match. Charles poorly coaches his team and doesn't follow Claude's advice, sitting on the bench. Moreover, an opposing player, TIGRAN MANDORALEN, poses significant problems for the team. FC Ougrée is set to lose. Charles agrees to follow Claude's advice and lets her onto the field despite Tigran's presence. Some spectators think bringing in a girl isn't the right idea to counter such a player. Some Ougrée players share this opinion. Despite this, Claude shows obvious technical and tactical qualities. Thanks to her game intelligence, she turns the situation around. She is omnipresent and directs everyone. As the score is tied, she cleverly earns a penalty, which she pays for with a blow to the ankle. Claude insists on taking the penalty despite her injury. She misses it, and her team loses the match.

8. In the locker room, the boys scapegoat Claude for their defeat. Only BRUNO (13 years old), captain, and childhood friend of Claude, defends her. But the boys no longer want Claude on the team. They believe she has reached her limit. Claude is kicked out.

9. Claude seeks her father as club president. She wants her place back. Charles categorically refuses to grant her any special treatment. If she wants her place back, she must fight. That's how her mother would have reacted. That said, at 15, mixed-gender play will no longer be allowed. Charles believes it's time for Claude to move on to women's football. Claude refuses.

10. Alone in her room, crying and raging against the world, Claude has a vision: she plays in a grand stadium packed with people, then is carried in triumph by a men's team, a trophy in hand. Claude dries her tears. The vision disappears.

11. The next morning, Claude announces to her father that she has chosen her path. She has decided to become a professional player in the men's championship. It's the only way to fully live her passion. Charles thinks it's a foolish idea. He lists the enormous difficulties it represents, even legally. But Claude is determined: there was a first female astronaut, a first female fighter pilot, she will be the first professional female football player among men.

First Act of the Culbut Treatment

1. MAXIME (35 years old) is in a laundromat. Physically, he looks like an average man. He even has a certain charm. He just has a bandage on his eyebrow and another around a finger. He asks a young woman, JULIETTE (33 years old), to help him put detergent in his washing machine because he's afraid of spilling it everywhere. Juliette smiles.

2. Juliette and Maxime make love. He can't find the target. It's clear this isn't their first time. Juliette bursts out laughing. Maxime gets offended.

3. A bag on her back and a vanity case in hand, Juliette stands in the doorway of Maxime's studio. She explains, sorry, that she's fine with drinking from chipped glasses or getting mustard on her occasionally. But there's one thing she can't do, and that's stop herself from laughing when he messes up. It's beyond her control. Maxime defends himself: he's not forbidding her to laugh. It's just that it's not funny. Juliette tells Maxime that his real handicap isn't what he thinks. Then she gives him a little kiss and leaves. Maxime stands there, thoughtful. GELULE, a white mouse, approaches him, as if to console him.

4. Maxime goes to the Clinical Investigation Center (CIC) at the Lyon University Hospital where he seems to know everyone. Opening the door towards him, he hits himself in the face. He immediately looks around to see if anyone saw him, then continues on his way.

5. At the CIC, Maxime is received by ANTOINE (40 years old), a pragmatic lab technician who offers him three protocols as a healthy volunteer: a dewormer, an antihistamine, and a series of phytotherapy tests. Maxime chooses the latter because it pays the most. He will have to stay in the hospital for observation.

6. Maxime is in a hospital room reading The Pharmacist's Daily. He receives a visit from two nurses, one of whom he doesn't know. MARIE-CLAUDE (50 years old) introduces NATACHA (30 years old) who is there for the week. Maxime is both intrigued and wary. Trying to get out of bed, he falls in front of the two nurses. Marie-Claude bursts out laughing, much to Maxime's dismay, while Natacha holds back and helps Maxime up.

7. In the pediatric section of the hospital, Maxime sees Natacha entertaining sick children with a balloon act. He is charmed.

8. Natacha takes Maxime's blood pressure. He watches the young woman as his heart rate accelerates.

9. In his well-kept studio but with traces of various disasters, Maxime talks about Natacha to Gélule. He is moved.

10. Maxime plays a game of chess with Antoine. He gives Antoine codes so that Antoine manipulates Maxime's pieces for him. Maxime tries to get Natacha to take care of him in the next protocol. Antoine tells him that Natacha is gone. She's not a nurse but an actress. She was at the hospital to prepare for a role she is soon to play in the theater. Currently, she's acting in another play: The Government Inspector by Nikolai Gogol.

11. Maxime finds the contact details of the Marcel Pagnol Cultural Center where Natacha is performing.

12. Maxime goes to the Cultural Center and buys a ticket to see the play. Attendance is very low. Maxime enters the theater as if entering unknown territory. In the following weeks, he attends several performances of The Government Inspector. The play amuses him, but it's Natacha who fascinates him. She plays Maria, the governor's daughter who becomes the inspector's fiancée.

13. One day when Maxime returns to see the play for the umpteenth time, the performance is canceled because one of the actors is unavailable. HANS, the director, 57 years old, confident and charming, offers the few spectators a refund, an invitation to return to see the play, and a drink with the whole troupe. Natacha thus encounters Maxime, who pretends to be there for the first time. Natacha introduces Maxime to Hans, saying only that he's a black belt in pharmacology. She introduces Hans to Maxime, saying he's a black belt in theater. Hans takes Maxime for a doctor and asks for advice for chronic back pain. Maxime recommends a medication.

14. Maxime explains to Gélule that he's going to invite Natacha to dinner and listen to her.

15. Maxime asks Antoine to give him a new test protocol because he needs money to invite Natacha to a fancy restaurant. Antoine refuses. Not only will Maxime exceed his legal quota, but it could be dangerous for his health. Maxime doesn't insist.

16. Maxime goes to Geneva to another laboratory and asks DOCTOR FISCHER for a test as a healthy volunteer. Fischer gives him a medication for kidney stones. Maxime ensures it won't prevent him from listening. Because he needs to be all ears in the coming days. Fischer thinks it surely won't make him deaf. Maxime is reassured. Everything is in place. All that's left is to take action.

10. THE CONTINUITY OF DIALOGUE

"After moving from theme to acts, from acts to scenes, from scenes to dialogues, you have a ready script."
(Billy Wilder [94])
"I am terribly talkative out of concern to keep the character true."
(Jean-Michel Charlier [19])
"If the scene doesn't work, it's not by injecting a lot of words that you'll improve it."
(Stirling Silliphant [73])
"The terrible events (...) will be exposed on our stage in two hours."
(prologue, Romeo and Juliet)
Dialoguing a scene is perhaps the most spontaneous part of a playwright's work. While the previous steps alternated between reflection and spontaneity, this one allows you to fully dive into writing to get a first draft. Then, you return to your work to analyze and refine it.
I've seen many authors eager to move on to dialogues, as if they felt they were finally writing for real. I maintain that the work of foundations, scene-to-scene, and treatment also involves writing and creation. Conversely, I've seen some authors less comfortable with the dialogue stage than with all the previous ones. Perhaps because they were about to finally have a "finished product" and imagined their first draft had to be perfect. They found themselves blocked.

A. THE DIALOGUE
The most important function of dialogue, far ahead of all others, is to make the story believable, to create an illusion of reality. For the simple reason that putting human beings into action requires making them communicate through speech. Exceptions to this rule are rare and shouldn't necessarily be sought in what was called "silent" cinema. Take 99% of feature films in silent film history—I exclude short films and documentaries—and you'll see they're filled with dialogues. And often with very meaningful dialogues. The "Yes, I see now" of the florist (Virginia Cherrill) at the end of City Lights or the "Sorry if I'm a bit late" of Buster (Keaton) in the middle of The Cameraman testify to this. In short, it's not because dialogues are given to read or guess rather than hear that silent film characters didn't speak like the vast majority of human beings do.
The great exception of silent cinema is The Last Laugh, which is more of a challenge than a rich and complex narrative. Moreover, there are dialogues in The Last Laugh, they just aren't presented as intertitles. It's up to the viewer to guess the little that's said. In sound films, one can cite The Spy, which follows the tribulations of a solitary scientific spy, The Naked Island, which tells the minimalist story of a family surviving in difficult conditions, Quest for Fire, whose action takes place before articulated language, Themroc, set in the 70s but where characters grunt like savages instead of speaking, and The Last Battle, set in a post-apocalyptic world where the (few) humans have lost speech. As we see, to do without dialogues, one must have a subject that justifies it. Otherwise, it can quickly become grotesque and prevent the viewer from entering the story. The last four examples give us an eloquent indication: when we refrain from making humans speak, we assimilate the characters to animals with animal concerns (survival, reproduction).
This function of dialogue (making fiction plausible) is so obvious that no one pays attention to it, but it can be useful to be aware of it. It can relieve some of the pressure regarding dialogue and prevent others from seeking THE dialogue that will dazzle everyone and be remembered in dictionaries.

Other functions of dialogue
In addition to making the story believable, dialogue also serves to:
1 - characterize the speaker, more in the content of the dialogue than in the way of speaking. The most classic characterization dialogue is where the character gives information about themselves or others. But there are less direct dialogues that teach us a lot about the characters without seeming to;
2 - illustrate the relationships between the speaker and other characters;
3 - provide information on what the speaker desires, thinks, or feels. States of mind can be expressed directly, as in classical theater or comics;
4 - advance the action. That is, generate or convey obstacles; prepare or pay off an element; set up, exploit, or resolve dramatic irony; recount past events (exposition, cf. below); support or contradict a piece of activity, etc.;
5 - create a link. Generally, within a scene, dialogues logically follow one another. It's a factor of unity.
All these functions are, of course, compatible. N.B. You will find, in La dramaturgie [51], an entire chapter dedicated to dialogue. It details the functions stated here and explores the dialogue tool.

Dialogue technique
Technically, dialogue must also:
1 - be clear and understandable for the viewer;
2 - be comfortable for the actors. Read your dialogues aloud. Better yet, act out your dialogues. You'll do everyone a favor;
3 - be specific. Prefer "I could use a vacation" to "I need a break" or "I'm fed up." Prefer "My dream right now is ten toes in the sand and a piña colada straw lazily hanging from my open mouth" to "I could use a vacation." Of course, the right dialogue will depend on the context. Prefer "My kingdom for a horse!" to "I'm in a bad spot" if your protagonist is on a battlefield and has some wealth (Richard III);
4 - seem alive, that is, "realistic," especially in cinema and television. Of course, what we call realistic dialogue is, in fact, an artifice, simply less artificial than poetic, romantic, symbolic, or other dialogues. In life, people hesitate, search for words, repeat themselves, don't finish their sentences, don't always say what they meant, etc. Even Woody Allen, whose dialogue is slightly stammering, doesn't speak in his films as he would in life. His dialogue is very crafted, respects the unity of action, and doesn't say more than necessary.
Omnipotent dialogue, paraphrase, and underlining
However, dialogues must avoid:
1 - carrying everything on their shoulders. "I'll sort that out during the dialogue" is one of the great mottos (more or less conscious) of the novice author;

2 - diluting information. In classical plays, characters didn't just give their opinion, they expressed it in every possible way. They paraphrased. This resulted in paragraphs of alexandrines where they explained themselves at length—real tunnels for actors and spectators, except for the enlightened amateurs, of which I confess I am not one. But the authors had an excuse: it was poetry (and surely, at the time, a form of spectacle, a feat). Today, conditions have changed. Audiences have evolved, shows are omnipresent, and dialogue has become almost "realistic." For these reasons, I think authors should be more concise;

3 - saying what the audience is supposed to understand on their own, making explicit what is implicit, in short, underlining. A classic example of underlined dialogue: "Obviously, you didn't understand anything!" If it's obvious, there's no need to say it. Thank you, life offers a remarkable explicit dialogue. Camille (Charlotte Gainsbourg) says to Joëlle (Anouk Grimberg): "Do you feel the emotion passing?" As if a clown said to his audience: "Did you see how funny it is?" Moreover, in a scene from Under the Biggest Tent in the World, while we clearly see the spectators laughing, a little girl adds: "I'm having so much fun, mom." Later, the spectators exclaim, admiring the acrobat's feats. A spectator comments: "He's amazing." At the beginning of A Heart in Winter, we see two luthiers (Daniel Auteuil, André Dussolier) assembling a violin without speaking. And Daniel Auteuil's voice-over feels obliged to specify: "Maxime and I understand each other without speaking." Do Sauter, Fieschi, and their audience need a voice-over to understand each other?

Often, underlining concerns the psychology of the characters. They are verbally too lucid about themselves or others. It's not about rationalization or self-justification, which are not underlining and instead betray a hidden meaning. It's about making them say what we are supposed to understand about them, the core of their thoughts, their true unconscious motivation. It's a classic pitfall in dramaturgy. It is partly due to the difficulty of conveying information through action or activity. Underlining is an easy solution.

B. EXPOSITION
Dialogue is sometimes used to have one of the characters tell a story. This is what I call "exposition" (chapter 11 of Dramaturgy [51]). Because it is literary in essence and not dramatic, exposition quickly becomes indigestible. Moreover, when it occurs at the beginning of a story, it often feels like it's addressed directly to the receiver and not to one of the characters. It should therefore be used sparingly. Ideally, it should be avoided altogether. But this is not always possible. An author often needs to inform the audience of events that occurred before the story began and does not always have the means to show them. If these exposition pieces are very short, it's not a problem. But if they are quite long, the only way to make them digestible is to wrap them in conflict (serious or humorous).

The content is conflictual
Or the very content of the exposition is conflictual, and the mere act of narrating it creates conflict for at least one of the characters in the scene. This is the case in Hamlet when the Ghost tells how he was killed. It is also the case for the entire second act of Oedipus Rex, which is essentially made up of exposition, rendered conflictual by dramatic irony. It is also the case in The Workshop, which contains very beautiful examples of conflictual exposition. In scene 5, Simone, whose husband was deported and has not yet returned—we are in 1947—recounts her dealings with the administration and the atrocious and absurd scenes of which she is the protagonist. The exposition is moving because it is conflictual.

The content is not conflictual
Or the content of the exposition is not in itself conflictual, but the narrator character or their interlocutor experiences conflict. A Doll's House offers a very fine example. Nora has done something behind her husband's back. We need to know what it is, but there is no reason for Nora to tell just anyone, quite the contrary. Even to her friend Christine, Nora cannot reveal her secret outright. Very cleverly, Ibsen has Christine provoke Nora. Christine claims to be a liberated woman, criticizing Nora's comfort. Piqued in her pride, Nora then spills the beans to prove to Christine that she too has done unusual things for a woman. Moreover, since these things are secret and likely to cause conflict, our interest is doubly engaged.

Another classic example: one of the characters tells a story, and their interlocutor does not believe them, which creates conflict. This is the case in the very first scene of Peer Gynt, where Peer tells an incredible story to his mother, who is not fooled. The scene (and, by the same token, the play) thus begins with a conflictual dialogue that prompts us to pay attention to the exposition, to listen closely: "You're lying, Peer." In An Italian Straw Hat, the authors combine the two: Fadinard tells a slightly conflictual exposition—his horse ate a hat—to Vézinet, who is deaf.

An alternative: the dilution of exposition
Hergé was very skilled at conveying exposition. He knew that text, whether description or dialogue, quickly becomes indigestible in comics. He used various devices to dilute his information. In The Calculus Affair as well as in The Red Sea Sharks, he uses Haddock and his penchant for the bottle to animate a long discussion, with Topolino (pages 25-26) or Oliveira (pages 23-24). To recount the progress of the investigation in The Castafiore Emerald (pages 48-50), he shows us a television report and, to make it entertaining, has it broadcast by Tournesol's experimental television. Fundamentally, the tools are always the same: conflict, humor. However, it should be noted that this kind of trick might not work in cinema or theater. The spectator would be interested in the image and would miss a good part of the exposition.

Hitchcock does it at the beginning of The Trouble with Harry: a woman is murdered, and the information is conveyed in small pieces across different media. It's original, but what do we retain from this parade of images and short scenes? In comics, the problem doesn't arise because reading can be doubled. Often, a comic book reader first looks at the images and then returns to the text.

Blake Snyder [75] proposes a similar idea he calls "The Pope in the Pool." The expression comes from a project Snyder encountered where a good dose of exposition was delivered while we saw the pope doing laps in the Vatican pool. I find this technique very fragile. The risk of using an unusual image to throw in important information is that the spectator will be intrigued by said unusual image—"Oh! There's a pool in the Vatican," "Why isn't it cross-shaped?" "The cardinal in the background is quite fashionable with his little swimsuit"—and miss the essential of what they need to hear. Let's be clear, the general idea is not to get rid of exposition or sabotage it. The idea is to find an effective and digestible way to convey necessary information to the spectator.

More or less successful methods
Dramatists have used various tricks to convey exposition: the Greek chorus, chatty servants, the friend or confidant returning from a long journey are classics, not always very successful. Guards or watchmen are also particularly appreciated (cf. Hamlet, The Infernal Machine, or Roberto Zucco).

Chekhov uses a method of his own: his characters undertake a sort of self-examination, soliloquize, remember. Only Chekhov's incredible talent for characterizing his characters allows this unusual kind of exposition. It is not recommended for anyone not named Anton Chekhov.

The first scene of Tartuffe is an exposition scene. And it is conflictual. Unfortunately, Molière imposes on us, from the outset, six characters who also talk about two absentees (Orgon and Tartuffe), and it must be said that this scene is extremely indigestible. Many of the information it conveys is lost to the spectator.

Two: basic rules and a trick
Include only the bare minimum of exposition necessary for understanding the story. You would be surprised to find that the spectator quickly understands the essence of a situation without much historical material. If, for example, the spectator needs to understand a character's motivations, they do not require knowing all the circumstances that led this character to be who they are and feel what they feel. If we had to recount all the education the protagonist received before starting the action, we would never finish. In short, you have an interest in eliminating any exposition element that is not absolutely essential or that will become clear during the story.

Do not put all the exposition at the beginning of the work. It is often very beneficial to postpone it to later and, if possible, to the moment when it has the maximum impact, where it can constitute an interesting dramatic knot. Eve offers a magnificent example. Towards the end of the film, Addison DeWitt (George Sanders) uses the information he has on Eve (Anne Baxter)—which is then revealed to us—to force her to stay with him. Be careful, however, not to make a mystery of what needs to be exposed. It's a delicate balance. If you give information too late that the spectator feels is necessary for understanding the story—as in Sophie's Choice—it is the participation of said spectator that suffers.

A trick worth considering is to place the exposition after a strong dramatic knot, at a moment when the spectator is necessarily attentive and, at the same time, needs to digest what they have just experienced.

C. GENERAL SUGGESTIONS
Scenes without conflict
Not all scenes, without exception, need to contain conflict. The protagonist can perfectly achieve a local goal without encountering obstacles. In scene 4 of act IV of Tartuffe, Elmire's goal is to hide Orgon under the table. She encounters no obstacle, as Orgon does not resist. Often, scenes without conflict do not contain the protagonist of the work. They serve to announce obstacles for the future. In scene 2 of act II of Hamlet, the king and queen aim to convince Rosencrantz and Guildenstern to spy on Hamlet. They have no obstacle. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern might hesitate to spy on a childhood friend, but they do not.

It is clear that the authors had no interest in developing conflict in these two scenes. The entirely legitimate desire to put a lot of conflict in a work should not lead you to put it everywhere, for any reason. If conflict were exploited every second, the action would take forever to advance. However, at the risk of boring the spectator, it is evident that a scene without conflict must be short. This is the case in the two examples cited.

Local evolution and crescendo
In general, it is easy to chain the gestures and dialogues of a scene, thus creating evolution. This contributes to respecting the local unity of action.

However, establishing a crescendo within a scene does not come as spontaneously and requires that the scene be rigorously constructed before being written. Certainly, one can do without it. It is even likely that a work in which all scenes are written on the same mold (protagonist-goal-obstacles with a crescendo leading to the climax) gives a somewhat tedious feeling of systematism. That said, the more constructed the scenes are, the more comfortable the writing is for the author, and the more the spectator enjoys it.

It may be a good idea to speed up the pace at the end of the second act by shortening the scenes and, if possible, by reducing dialogues and adding more activity. At the end of Intolerance, which tells four stories in parallel, Griffith moves from one story to another more and more quickly. Tightening the action can also consist of focusing on an increasing or decreasing number of characters. This is the case, of course, when characters disappear one after the other (cf. Alim, Battle Royale, Ten Little Indians, or The Bridge) or turn into rhinoceroses (Rhinoceros). But it is also what Renoir and Spaak do in The Grand Illusion. As the action progresses, we become more interested in a small group of characters. In The Builders of Empire, the story of a family grappling with a relentless curse, the action tightens according to three criteria: 1 - the family moves to increasingly smaller places, 2 - they lose objects and furniture each time, 3 - its members disappear one by one. This type of process helps reinforce the impression of a crescendo. The same effect can be created by proceeding in reverse, by introducing more and more characters, as at the end of The Awful Truth.

A resourceful protagonist
If the protagonist decides to do something, the idea must come from them and not from their surroundings (newspaper, television, event, friends, etc.). When in trouble, one has imagination. If the idea is provided by an external event, the spectator does not think that fate sometimes does things well, they rather feel the author's intervention placing their pawns at the right moment and tossing their protagonist around. If the idea is provided by another character, it seems too easy. Or, add conflict. A classic trick is to have the protagonist refuse the idea, which, of course, they are forced to adopt later.

When the author betrays themselves
Unless the subject requires it, avoid giving the same character trait to several characters. It can pass if it's naivety or clumsiness. But if you have several sexist, cynical, bitter, angry, racist characters, the spectator will feel that it is you who are transpiring through your characters, and chances are they are right.

Lucky Luke's Fiancée offers a spectacular illustration of this principle. It is an accumulation of misogynistic clichés. Even Lucky Luke joins in: "Marriage is a lottery," "Marriage is a charming mistake that two human beings make together," "A woman worries about her future until the day she marries. A man worries about his future from the day he marries." In short, the author throws in all the aphorisms they found in the dictionary of quotations under the heading "Marriage." We thus discover a Lucky Luke who is afraid of women. Why not. It could have been an interesting characterization element to exploit. But when we see that all the characters are in the same state, we quickly realize that this primary sexism can only come from the author themselves. In short, if you suffer from misogyny, racism, or homophobia, and if you think it deserves to be addressed, reread yourself or have someone else read you. Check that your tendencies do not transpire.

The montage-sequence with parsimony
In the case of cinema and television, do not overuse series of images or series of short scenes sometimes called a "montage-sequence." This tool is generally used to condense an action that repeats or unfolds over a long period. Even when it doesn't turn into a music video, the montage-sequence tells something, but it tells it from a distance. The spectator does not participate. They even feel that they are being addressed directly. Not to mention that the montage-sequence is sometimes a symptom of the author's impotence. Or a sign that the author wants to cram a lot of information into their story.

Finally, know that, from a purely practical point of view, the montage-sequence often costs a lot. Because it requires moving an entire technical team to different sets to record only a few seconds of film.

The permutation trick
As I have already had the opportunity to say, I believe that an author possesses in their unconscious the ideal story. The difficulty is to give birth to this ideal story. Among its characteristics, the unconscious does not know negation. If you say, for example: "No, Haneke and Tarantino are not sadistic neurotics," your interlocutors' unconscious will not hear the negation and will associate the names Haneke and Tarantino with the words "neurotics" and "sadistic." For the same reasons, it is better to tell a child "Remember to take your bag" than "Don't forget your bag." It gives better results.

All this to say that you may have a good idea for your story but not situate it correctly. If you feel something is wrong, take two narrative elements, reverse them, and see what it gives. Instead of having the triggering incident happen to this character, have it happen to another. Instead of giving this goal to a character, give them exactly the opposite goal. Instead of putting this scene at the end, put it at the beginning. Instead of creating a new character to generate an obstacle, use an existing character. Instead of having a character say a dialogue, put it in the mouth of the character opposite. Instead of a character hating another character, have them adore them. Instead of the son experiencing a particular conflict, have it be the father. Instead of a character knowing a secret, have them ignore it. In short, you keep part of the idea and radically change its insertion into the project. The possibilities for permutation are endless. Try, simulate, dare the most absurd inversions. You will be surprised at how often this technique solves the problem.

I beg you
Avoid the drunkenness to allow one of your characters to say or do something they certainly wouldn't do if they were sober. Avoid the too-realistic nightmare from which your protagonist wakes up saying, "Phew! It was just a bad dream." More generally, avoid any dream scene. Avoid the phone call that interrupts the characters at an important moment or at a moment that suits you. Avoid the radio, television, or newspaper to give your protagonist an idea (cf. above). Avoid the character who says to another: "We need to talk." Spare us the endless brawl from which the belligerents emerge with intact metacarpals. Spare us "I don't know why I'm telling you all this." Spare us the villains who laugh heartily after threatening your protagonist. Spare us the characters who are lucid about themselves or others. Spare us the character who orders a drink in a café, pays for it, and leaves without drinking it. Spare us the blow to the back of the neck that knocks out a character as if by magic. Renounce, in the stage directions, characters who blush or pale. N.B. Today, there are lists of clichés to avoid on the internet, especially in the field of science fiction.

Questions of plausibility
Plausibility issues are tricky because they are not all of the same nature. It's a delicate balance. Sometimes, an author dwells on an implausibility without realizing that the spectator will never notice it. Sometimes, they gloss over it and leave big holes in their story. The classic trap is to adopt an idea because "it exists in life." Let's recall Boileau's famous saying [10] on this subject: "The truth can sometimes not be plausible." In life, we know there is coherence, even if we don't always have the elements to understand. In fiction, this coherence must be staged. Or make believe it exists. "The role of the poet," says Aristotle [02], "is to say not what actually happens but what could happen in the order of the plausible or necessary."

When you have a plausibility problem, a good trick is often to lay it out in the open, turning it to your advantage, that is, making a strength of its weakness. This is what the authors of I Confess should have done. The film tells the story of a priest (Montgomery Clift) who receives the confession of a murderer (Otto Hasse) before being accused of his crime. And who remains silent. Truffaut and Hitchcock [41] agree that the film poses a problem: the public cannot believe that a man is so bound by the seal of confession that he refuses to declare his innocence. And Hitchcock concludes: "The film should not have been made." To this somewhat radical solution, an alternative consisted of creating a character who could justify the protagonist's motivations. This is a classic trick when something true is not plausible: just introduce a skeptic into the story, to whom another character gives the necessary arguments. This gives the spectator a reference point, who then says: "It's unusual but possible." In other words, a skeptical character defuses the spectator's skepticism. Certainly, in I Confess, the
the problem is delicate. The only people who know the priest's secret are the murderer, his wife (Dolly Haas), and the viewer. But nothing prevented the priest from confiding in another clergyman.

Alongside this, there are cases of implausibilities that pose no problem. The anachronisms of George Bernard Shaw are among them. In Saint Joan, nationalism and Protestantism are clearly mentioned, even though at the time (1431) they did not exist, at least not consciously. In The Birds, one of the characters present during the bird attacks is, coincidentally, an ornithologist (Ethel Griffies). As Hitchcock says: "I could have shot three scenes to make her arrival plausible, but those scenes would have had no interest. (...) Let's be logical: if you want to analyze everything and construct everything in terms of plausibility, no fiction script would withstand this analysis."

A proof with nothing less than Citizen Kane. At the beginning of the film, the old Kane (Orson Welles) is alone and bedridden in a vast room. He murmurs "Rosebud," drops a snow globe, and dies. The door opens, a nurse (Renee Godfrey) enters and confirms the death. Did she hear the word "Rosebud"? It's unlikely. The door was closed, the word was whispered, and she had no reason to be right at the entrance of the room, ear pressed against the door. It was the breaking of the snow globe that caught her attention. In short, the word "Rosebud" was not heard by any character in the film. Nevertheless, a few scenes later, everyone knows about it. At the end of the film, far too late, the butler (Paul Stewart) claims he was present in the room when Kane said "Rosebud" before dying. We don't know if the butler is lying to seem interesting or if he's telling the truth, but one thing is certain, we didn't see him at the beginning of the film. And if he was in the room, what was he doing there? Why didn't he approach Kane to assist him? I suspect Welles and Mankiewicz started their story with an inconsistency. But few notice it because the viewer heard the word "Rosebud." An attentive or critical mind might wonder how the journalists know, but they cannot doubt that Kane pronounced the word.

Length of scenes and works

There is no absolute rule regarding the length a scene should have. But if we took the cinematic repertoire to find an average, we would probably arrive at a duration close to two minutes. Of course, it depends on the needs. A scene with two characters is necessarily shorter than a scene with ten. Some transition scenes are very short, others (the bathroom cleaning in Psycho or the chariot race in Ben-Hur) much longer. The great confrontation between Eva (Liv Ullmann) and her mother (Ingrid Bergman) in Autumn Sonata lasts seventeen minutes. In theater, scenes are more verbose, thus longer than in cinema.

But there is a certain logic that most scenes should be neither too short nor too long. Too short, they prevent the author from developing and exploiting the local action. A work composed solely of very short scenes works poorly. The viewer barely has time to settle in before having to move on. Too long, a scene can become boring, either because it is verbose (the first scene of Family Plot or the last of A Doll's House), or because it does not respect the unity of local action (scene II/6 of The Cid). To this, we must add a fundamental consideration: physical length and psychological length are two very distinct notions. It's like real temperature versus perceived temperature in meteorology. We've all seen five-minute short films that lasted an eternity, while two-hour feature films prevented us from noticing the time passing. That's why a scene, like an entire work, should last as long as necessary, knowing that, most of the time, two minutes are enough for a scene and an hour and forty for a work. Strindberg, who was concerned about not boring the audience, endeavored not to make Miss Julie last more than ninety minutes. This is also the attitude of Woody Allen and Francis Veber, whose many films do not exceed this duration. At one time, the length of an act in theater depended as much on dramatic necessities as on the lifespan of candles. Since the advent of electricity, Hitchcock estimated that the duration of a film should take into account the endurance capacity of a human bladder.

"It is necessary for a play to be short," says Peter Brook. "After two hours of performance, I get restless and impatient. Shakespeare himself uses the formula 'Two Hours' to talk about the duration of his own works." Shakespeare is not the only one. In The Discourse of the Three Unities, Corneille affirms that "the representation lasts two hours."

Since we are talking about duration, a few thoughts on rhythm. Unless you want to bore the receiver or create a contemplative atmosphere, the first logical rule is to get to the point. By respecting the unity of action, cutting the superfluous, starting scenes as late as possible, ending them as soon as possible, and achieving multiple goals at once.

Another element sometimes related to the question of rhythm: ensuring that each scene leads to the next. Not only is it desirable that what precedes prepares what follows, but if each of your scenes makes you want to know the next, you hold your receiver. As our old friend Aristotle said, "it is very different to say 'this happens because of that' and 'this happens after that.'"

Contrast is also a way to give rhythm to a story. If all your scenes are full of nonstop adrenaline, you risk tiring the audience. Alternating strong scenes and moments of rest or digestion is a way to give relief, thus interest, to a story.

Of course, in cinema, editing plays an important role in the rhythm domain. The editor spends a good part of their time removing parts of scenes as well as parts of shots. Their contribution to rhythm is major.

Running a time trial

Do you know how cyclists are advised to run a time trial? The rule is simple. They must start strong, accelerate, and finish with a flourish. I think we should do the same with a story. The beginning must be impeccable, the middle solid, and the end powerful.

Why take care of the beginning? First, to make the rest easier to write. Many elements are planted in the launch. Then, to not give readers or viewers an excuse to drop out. The beginning must be gripping and indisputable.

"Gripping" means it arouses interest, already making you want to turn the pages. "Indisputable" means there are no implausibilities or inconsistencies. The first act must be fluid. Zero snags.

Why take care of the middle? Because it allows you to transition from the beginning to the end, thus justifying it correctly. It's in the middle that trajectory conflicts occur. It's also often in the middle that the key scene slips in. Finally, taking care of the middle is about giving pleasure to the receiver and maintaining their attention.

Why take care of the end? Because it brings meaning. And because it's the last element that marks the receiver, their last memory of the work. The end has a particularity that no other dramatic node of a story has: the receiver has time to digest, mature, distill it because there is nothing behind it. The end is therefore the ideal place to create an impact.

The first ten minutes

A representative of the Writers Guild of America West told me in 2015 that his guild registered about 70,000 works per year, the vast majority of which were scripts. It's monumental. Especially since not all screenwriters submit their work to the WGA. All in all, this means that about 200 new scripts arrive in Hollywood every day, 365 days a year. Thus, some interns or assistants go home on weekends with twenty or thirty scripts to read. The task is inhuman. But rest assured, Hollywood has found several radical ways not to have to read scripts to the end and quickly dismiss them. Inventing an excuse to say no has become one of the major skills of decision-makers. The three main criteria are layout, genre, and immediate attractiveness. If your script is not formatted correctly, trash! If it does not respect the constants of a codified genre, trash! And if your first ten minutes do not win the reader's approval, they won't even get to the beginning of the second act, trash!

Does this mean your first ten minutes must be devilishly sexy? For some, it has indeed become a tacit rule in the United States. Of course, the beginning of a story should not be dull, vague, or awkward. But is it necessary to dazzle right away? If you're writing an adventure film like James Bond or Indiana Jones, it's understandable. Not so much because they are popular entertainment works but rather because the first act of a story is partly devoted to the routine life of the future protagonist, and the routine life of carnival spies and treasure hunters is always spectacular. But why apply this rule to all types of stories? When examining the repertoire, we find many major works that do not meet this condition. At the beginning of Seven Samurai, bandits decide not to attack a village they have already ransacked in the past so it can recover before the next raid. An impatient author would probably have started the film with a good big spectacular attack. Hashimoto, Kurosawa, and Oguni felt they didn't need it. Despite all the esteem I have for In Her Eyes, 12 Angry Men, Miracle in Alabama, Groundhog Day, or One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, I don't find their first ten minutes breathtaking. Sometimes, like in Amélie, The Apartment, or Once Upon a Time in the West, you could even say they drag on.

It must be acknowledged that these examples are not recent. To be precise, they date from before Syd Field, who declared in 1979 in Screenplay: "As head of the story department at Cinemobile Systems, I was always 70 scripts behind. (...) I read so many boring and poorly written scripts that I could tell from the first ten pages if the script was properly structured. (...) I had too much to read to waste my time finishing a script that didn't work." This last sentence is paradoxical. How can you know a script doesn't work if you haven't read it all? Syd Field's answer: "I didn't have time to hope the author had done their job." We are anchored in a new era. Scripts are ten, a hundred, maybe a thousand times more numerous than in the 60s. Not only did Syd Field clarify the ruthless cut-off of decision-makers, but also, studios and box offices are no longer run by rock children but by business school graduates. We have no choice but to take this into account.

That said, I am convinced that the public does not demand that a story start hysterically. The viewer knows that an author needs time to set up and launch their action. They only start getting impatient after twenty or twenty-five minutes. Besides, that's the time Syd Field declared he gave to scripts: "I gave the author 30 pages to set up their story. If it wasn't done by then, I grabbed the next script on the pile." My suggestion is that you show professionalism and make people want to read from the first page. But without trying to dazzle, without forcing things. If prostituting oneself may allow being read by interns to the end, I'm not sure it's a winning choice in the long term.

What to put in the first act

The first act's function is to launch the action. As we saw in chapter 4, it must therefore present the elements of the pitch: arena, main characters, routine life, inciting incident, declaration of objective, and an idea of the obstacles to come. Sometimes, the first act sets up a major dramatic irony. But not always. A major dramatic irony can also be set up at the beginning of the second act or even in the middle of the second act (using the median climax, for example). If one of your characters transforms, the beginning of the first act (before the inciting incident) is the ideal place to present the trajectory protagonist (often with their reasonable contradictor).

I advocate a simple, clear, precise, and plausible beginning. With as little mystery as possible. I find that mystery is a poor way to hook the receiver. I advise against using it to start a story. Why? Because mystery creates intellectual curiosity and not emotional curiosity. When you set up a dramatic question, a trajectory question, or an ironic question, you launch uncertainty and suspense. We know the answer will be yes or no - she reaches or doesn't reach her goal, he transforms or doesn't, she learns or doesn't what she doesn't know - but we are torn between hope and fear. Whereas with a mystery, there is zero suspense. We just want to know the info we don't know. Who killed? Why did he have this accident? Who is this strange character? What are they talking about? Why are they acting this way? What are their motivations? Zero emotion. We know we'll get the clarification and we don't particularly fear it. We just wait for it to arrive so we can finally fully participate. Of course, I'm talking about important mysteries over time. At the very beginning of a story, there is necessarily a bit of mystery since we don't know everything about the characters and their universe. But that mystery can (and should) be resolved very quickly.

Thus, starting a story by launching a big flashback rarely seems like a good idea to me. For several reasons. First, we try to hook the receiver with mystery and not with an emotional question. Second, as the receiver tends to unconsciously put events in order, they quickly forget they saw a future element at the beginning. And if they don't forget, it's because that element gave information that spoils the rest. I am convinced that one can be brilliant and original by putting scenes in order.

I know that starting with a flashback and/or mystery is a classic in cinema. Examples abound. Despite this, I invite all those who think that withholding information and "mystifying" things are good ways to hook a viewer, I invite them to rush to the first season of Happy Valley. Zero mystery. Plenty of conflict. Dramatic ironies galore. Result, an ultra-powerful first episode. Giving all the information (except those that would spoil surprises) does not deflate suspense or sell the ending. It's even the opposite. It's the best way to make the viewer participate.

Exemplary conclusions

The authors of Cyrano de Bergerac and City Lights know that it is not enough to provide the dramatic answer to end a story. When great dramatic ironies have been set up, they must also be resolved. This is what they carefully do in their third act.

It has been said a lot that Waiting for Godot has no end. That's false. Just because there is no end for Vladimir and Estragon doesn't mean there isn't one for Beckett or his viewer. At the second appearance of the boy, we understood: Godot will never come. Beckett knows the information has been conveyed. He is right to stop his play at this moment.

At the end of the second act of Tootsie, Michael (Dustin Hoffman) has decided to stop the deception of his disguise. He takes advantage of the live recording of an episode, awaited by all of America, to reveal that his character, Dorothy, is a man. It's one of the most beautiful climaxes in the repertoire. First, because it is conflictual and even explosive (humanly). Second, because it resolves all the plots, those of Dorothy as well as those of Michael. Third, because it doesn't just resolve the dramatic question, it also resolves the film's great ironic question. Fourth, because everyone is present. All the important characters in the film are either on the set or in front of their television. Fifth, because the characters' reactions are presented in crescendo, from the least important to the most important, from the technicians to Julie (Jessica Lange). Sixth, because this climax gives meaning to the story.

If you are attentive to endings or if you wish to end your story with an ending that will leave an unforgettable memory, you will find beautiful examples in the following works, in addition to Cyrano de Bergerac, Waiting for Godot, and City Lights mentioned above: Apocalypto, Blow Out, Bombón: El Perro, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, Citizen Kane, In Her Eyes, the 6th episode of the 1st season of Dexter, The Easy Life, Little Miss Sunshine, Manon of the Spring, Memento, Miracle in Alabama, About Schmidt, No Man's Land, Planet of the Apes (1968), Fail Safe, The Sixth Sense, Titanic, It's a Wonderful Life (1946), Life Is Beautiful (1997), Ikiru, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, the 4th episode of the 1st season of The Walking Dead. Without revealing too much for those who haven't seen these works, we will notice that they are all human-scale stories and that there is a significant part of misfortune or failure in these endings. Most are not happy endings. But all are moving or/and meaningful payoffs. You will also notice that these are not hooks, as found at the end of an episode. I am talking here about conclusions. Some are more or less open, but at least what was set up has been resolved.

On the dramatic text

A dramatic work must describe what is seen and heard significantly on screen or stage, no more, no less, and in as neutral a style as possible. You must therefore avoid poetic or literary effects. Only dialogues are entitled to poetry. Also to be avoided: your comments on what is happening, sentences - whether in descriptions or dialogues - that indicate what the viewer is supposed to understand or feel. Cross out, for example, all sentences that contain "one guesses that" or "one understands that" and manage to make the acts, actions, images, sounds convey the information you want to pass on.

Stylistic effects and comments are terrible traps. Certainly, they greatly facilitate the reading of a dramatic text, but they disappear when the story moves from text to representation. And with them, either a tone or important information that has not been taken care to convey otherwise may disappear. It is true that a well-written script (i.e., without literary effect) is quite a difficult product to read, even more so than a play which generally contains fewer pictorial descriptions (or stage directions). A dramatic text is received with the cortical brain and the left hemisphere, while its representation involves much more the limbic brain, which is the seat of emotions. Hence this terrible handicap for dramaturgy: plays and scripts are poor models.

In 1983, Patrick Bokanowski, starting from an idea by painter and researcher Henri Dimier, according to which the eye is not only a receiver but can also be an emitter, imagined most seriously a machine that would allow filmmakers to record directly on a sensitive medium (perhaps living matter, microorganisms) the images that form in their brain, enabling them to produce a true model of the work they have in mind. "I don't believe the idea of this device is crazier than the prediction of the telephone, radio, computer, etc.; what I'm sure of, in any case, is that it will be more practical for making films." The day this machine exists, authors will be able to produce models as effective as an architect's or musician's model. But we are not there yet.

Some cynics suggest, once a script is finished, adding stylistic figures, humor, atmosphere, poetry, in short, all sorts of literary elements that will make the script more pleasant to read and give it better chances with producers and professional organizations. In the United States, it has become a convention. Scripts are allowed to have what is called a "voice." It is even sometimes recommended. From my point of view, there is voice and voice. I find it wonderful that a story has a voice if the term refers to the personal universe and specific narration of an author. On the other hand, if the voice concerns the very style of the script, I find it dangerous. Because, once again, that voice will disappear once the script is put into images and sounds. I have read scripts with a voice (like that of Lethal Weapon, for example). I found that the authors were being clever, trapping themselves and everyone else. I maintain that it is a gigantic mistake and that there is much better to do: that readers and decision-makers finally learn to evaluate a dry dramatic text. Or hire competent readers.

On the presentation of the text
Since a dramatic work is not easy to read, you should make it as fluid and readable as possible. Thus, in the case of a screenplay, avoid technical indications (close-up, tracking shot, etc.). This makes reading very tedious and, moreover, it is not the screenwriter's job to conceive the film's breakdown. Furthermore, there is a strong chance that the director will not take such indications into account, so it is more clever to suggest a staging effect through an appropriate description. If, for example, you write:

"A fly lands on a hand. The hand swats the insect. It belongs to a 40-year-old woman with flaming hair...," it is clear that the scene is not filmed, from the start, in a long wide shot. In any case, is it really significant for the story whether a scene is shot in a fixed shot or a circular tracking shot?

Also to be avoided: pages divided vertically, with one column for the image and another for the sound. A human brain cannot read two things at once. It must make a choice. The author might as well impose the order of reading.

A final little tip for screenplays. Repeat the setting of the heading because many readers, unfortunately, do not read the headings. Example:

EXT. CHAMPS-ELYSEES - NIGHT

It is night. The Champs-Elysées are illuminated for Christmas. Charlotte and Kevin walk hand in hand...

Remember that before being used as a plan by a team of craftsmen and technicians, a dramatic work is read by decision-makers (producers, actors, financiers). They are the ones you must seduce first. Of course, the best way to seduce them is to tell a great story. In other words, to ensure that your plan contains a great narrative. But the readability of the text itself deserves attention. Everything must be done to make reading your story an enjoyable experience. But, once again, without cheating or selling your soul.

Second draft of the statement of intent: When you have revised your text twenty times and feel it can be sent to professionals, you may be asked for a statement of intent. Often, this contains two parts: a first part dedicated to meaning - the loop is then closed with my suggestion on page 39 - and a second part dedicated to staging.

I have never been comfortable with the statement of intent. It seems to me to essentially cultivate the laziness and lack of confidence of decision-makers who do not know how to evaluate a screenplay and need a text explanation. Yet a story must stand on its own. No statement of intent will be distributed to spectators at the end of the performance to put words on what they have just seen. The statement of intent can even become a trap when it allows the author to convey meaning that he has not managed to transmit through the story itself. On the other hand, it must be recognized that some elements do not come across in reading. I just spoke about the representation of the finished story, yet we are dealing with a text. Basically, it lacks everything concerning staging.

That is why, in my eyes, a statement of intent should primarily discuss what the author envisions as imagery, staging, sound, and embodiment by the actors. It can also be a good idea to provide references, titles. This allows your readers to understand what type of story you have in mind. It is especially useful in comedy. That said, it is a double-edged sword. If you propose a mediocre screenplay by referencing a masterpiece of the repertoire, it will not prevent your reader from noticing that your text does not measure up to its model. The statement of intent will not change that.

D. EXCERPT OF DIALOGUE CONTINUITY

There are plenty of examples of dialogue continuity on the internet - while examples of foundations, milestones, scene-by-scene, and treatment are nonexistent. I still propose a sample of a dialogue scene, taken from Culbuta, with the type of layout often demanded by decision-makers.

A bit of preparation. The protagonist, Maxime, is extremely clumsy and extremely sensitive. Antoine runs a Clinical Investigation Center where Maxime regularly tests medications to earn a little money. During one of the tests, Maxime fell in love with a new nurse named Natacha. We are still in the first act.

INT. ANTOINE'S OFFICE AT CIC - DAY

Maxime and Antoine are in front of a chessboard. Maxime has the black pieces.

MAXIME
CfS.

Antoine takes one of Maxime's two black knights and moves it. Then he plays one of his white pieces.

MAXIME
For the next test, I'd rather it wasn't Marie-Claude taking care of me. Ta4.

Antoine moves Maxime's rook.

ANTOINE
Did something happen?

MAXIME
No, no, but uh... I...

Antoine moves one of his pieces.

ANTOINE
You prefer to try someone else.

MAXIME
That's right.

ANTOINE
(smiling)
Natacha, for example. She's quite a looker, huh?

MAXIME
No, no, not at all!...
Well, yes, for example... E3.

Antoine moves one of Maxime's pawns.

ANTOINE
Is it already over with Juliette?

MAXIME
_ She annoyed me.

Antoine doesn't seem to approve.

MAXIME
Would you like to be constantly reminded that you sweat a lot?

Antoine doesn't insist. He moves one of his pieces.

ANTOINE
That's how I ended up here.

Maxime doesn't understand.

ANTOINE
During my medical studies, I was looking for an effective deodorant. I applied for tests. I liked the principle.

Maxime smiles.

MAXIME
So, if you had protruding ears and suffered from chronic aerophagia, you'd work in aeronautics.

Maxime makes a fart noise with his mouth. Antoine nods, smiling with a falsely complicit air.

ANTOINE
Do you want to see Natacha again or do you prefer to make fun of me?

MAXIME
Yes, sorry.

ANTOINE
Well, she's gone. That'll teach you, Zigoto.

MAXIME
To another department?

ANTOINE
She was a placebo nurse. You didn't see it coming.

MAXIME
She was what?

ANTOINE
An actress.
(Maxime's astonished look) She came to do an internship to prepare for a theater role.

MAXIME
(thoughtful) Actress... Db8.

Antoine looks at the game and realizes he has lost.

ANTOINE
Ah, damn! I should let you move your pieces. That would give me a handicap.

The scene is not major. However, I did not feel exempt from constructing it. Maxime has not yet decided to take long-term action. He still has a local objective: to see Natacha again. Obstacles: he doesn't want to reveal himself, he alienates Antoine, and, above all, Natacha is not immediately accessible; she has left the hospital. Climax and twist: she is not a nurse but an actress. The characterization of the characters is exploited: their relationship; Maxime's clumsiness, sensitivity, and intellectual vivacity; Antoine's professional deformation, expressed in his choice of vocabulary. The last dialogue, in the third act, is a little pun that refers to one of the film's major themes. The scene teaches us that Maxime is not the only one handicapped. Antoine also has a problem. The film's message is that we are all handicapped in one way or another. The question is what we do with our handicap.

11. SPECIFIC WRITINGS

"I would be unable to tell you the story of Daphne Du Maurier's The Birds. I only read it once, quickly."
(Alfred Hitchcock [41])
"If Peau d'âne were told to me, I would take extreme pleasure in it."
Jean de La Fontaine [48])

The progressive work proposed in this book (meaning - pitch - foundations - milestones - scene-by-scene - treatment - dialogue continuity) works for all types of writing. It works very well for adapting an existing source, whether it is a literary work, a news item, or a historical episode. Or even for preparing a film remake. It works very well for writing for children. It works very well for creating a short story. In addition to everything that precedes, here are some suggestions that take into account the specificities of each medium or format.

A. ADAPTING LITERARY WORKS

In La dramaturgie [51], I recall the fundamental difference between stories written to be read and stories written to be seen and heard. And I invite authors not to adapt a novel that does not contain enough drama. The mere fact that a literary work inspires images in its reader does not justify it being made for these "image arts" that are theater, cinema, or comics. If you still want to adapt a short story or a novel, some guidelines and common-sense rules can be proposed.

1. Start by questioning your motivations. If you want to share your enthusiasm for a book, you should not adapt it for theater or cinema; you should encourage people to read it. But one can be sensitive to the point of view or one of the points of view of the novel. The first step is to identify what attracts you and the reasons for this attraction.

2. Be aware that a novel is generally much too long to make a two-hour dramatic work. Accept the idea that you will not be able to put everything into images and that significant cuts will be necessary.

3. Be aware that images alone are not enough to make a long-format dramatic work, whether in theater, cinema, or comics. It also requires a plot and conflict.

4. Alfred Hitchcock, Frantisek Daniel, and others suggest reading the book once or twice and then putting it aside, only to return to it much later when the foundations of the work are well advanced. The idea is to start imagining a dramatic story from what you remember of the novel.

5. Choose, as the protagonist, the character who experiences the most dynamic conflict and who allows the chosen point of view to be conveyed. Preferably choose dramatic conflicts, that is, conflicts that can be represented by actions. If the novel tells the story of a deaf-mute poet who questions himself because he cannot find inspiration, it is wise to give up. If you do not offer a clear subject of identification to the viewer, you end up with a film like Atonement or Tamara Drewe. Lovely stories to read but less to watch.

6. Assign this protagonist a single general objective. If you do not respect the unity of action, you end up with a film like The Reader, which unfolds over three eras (each with a different action) and, in addition, flashforwards. Again, a beautiful story to read but less to watch.

7. Keep only the scenes or characters that constitute obstacles, direct or indirect, to this objective, that is, those that respect the unity of action.

8. Remove entire scenes from the novel rather than keeping them all, shortening them. Because David Lynch could not or did not want to do it, Frank Herbert's sprawling novel, Dune, became, on screen, a succession of short vignettes. For viewers who have not read the book, this resulted in an incomprehensible film, and for others, an accumulation of illustrations not necessarily corresponding to the vision they had of the novel.

9. Rewrite the dialogues. A good solution may be to completely forget the novel's dialogues and dialogue the treatment yourself. Then, if necessary, reintegrate some remarkable dialogues.

B. THE STORY FOR CHILDREN

In La dramaturgie [51], I speak of the nobility of writing for children and discuss its specificities. The main difference with stories for adults and adolescents lies in the nature of the recipient.

1. Do not underestimate your audience. Children are as demanding as adults. You have no interest, for example, in skimping on conflict or relying on the spectacular.

2. Consider the point of view conveyed by the work (see list on pages 44-45).

3. Involve children in live performances. Children love it. It values them, gives them power over the action, and strengthens identification, thus empathy. It is regrettable that many puppet shows are done with a recorded soundtrack.

4. Do not try to seduce adults. A successful story is one that pleased children. Of course, if you manage to include several levels of reading in the work, to give pleasure to all ages, that's even better. This is something Disney, Miyazaki sometimes, and especially Goscinny with Asterix do well. But the temptation, and sometimes the mistake, is to prioritize the adult viewer over the child. When writing for children, one must have the courage of clarity and simplicity.

5. If you start the story with a plausible, realistic situation - for example, parents who do not have enough money to feed their children (Tom Thumb, Hansel and Gretel) - do not switch to fantasy through a dream (as in The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T). This type of story says that dreams are useful for living and sometimes that the messages of dreams deserve to be heard. But the tale included in the dream does not have the impact it would have if it were introduced without artifice. Moreover, more generally, dreams are unnecessary in dramaturgy. Because it belongs to symbolic play. A film or a play is already a dream in itself. Classic fairy tales perfectly account for the dreamlike universe without ever switching to a dream.

6. Give common, generic names to the protagonists. And even, for all characters, names that designate their function: the sisters, the king, the stepmother, the ogre...

7. For Bettelheim [07], characters must be one-dimensional, simple, and Manichean. The younger the audience, the more necessary this rule is.

8. Tell the story several times to children, like the storytellers of yesteryear, and rewrite based on their reactions.

9. Finally, spending time with children, yours or others', can be an excellent idea. It is one of the greatest schools, of life as well as dramaturgy. But it must be recognized that it is a bit more than a technical track.

Do not overuse the good fairies

A child's life is more subject to arbitrariness than an adult's life. By nature, a child cannot fully take charge of their life. That is why they accept deus ex machina much more easily, whether in the strict sense (fairies or godmothers) or in the broad sense (external aids). That is also why a story intended for children can more easily afford to chain sketches one after the other.

That said, just because a child accepts deus ex machina more easily does not mean they are desirable. At the beginning of Puss in Boots, a miller bequeaths to his eldest son a mill, to his second son a donkey, and to his youngest son a cat. Of course, the youngest is frustrated. When he has eaten his cat, he will have nothing left but to starve. But it turns out that this cat is a clever one, worthy of the commedia dell'arte valets. He makes his master pass for the imaginary Marquis of Carabas and, with a few tricks, ensures him fortune and the hand of the princess. What a beautiful deus ex machina this cat is. It seems to me to harm the moral intended by Perrault, namely that of all inheritances, know-how is the most precious. Wouldn't it be better to tell the child that the best inheritance is their own know-how rather than someone else's?

I believe that a fairy tale protagonist should not be systematically tossed around. They must also take matters into their own hands. It might not be a bad idea to teach future adults to become autonomous, responsible for their actions, and not to eternally wait for providence or the government to come and solve their personal problems. The principle of causality is highly appreciated by children. A work aimed at them should therefore strive to work on syntax and preparation.

C. THE SHORT STORY

Once again, the tools proposed in this book are suitable for a two-minute story as well as a sixteen-hour series. A short story has the advantage of forcing you to get to the point and be inventive. You need to find tricks to compensate for the lack of space.

1. Design a simple first act in three phases: the routine life of the future protagonist, the inciting incident, the first act-second act transition. Each phase can be the subject of a scene, but all three can be included in the same scene if you are limited.

2. Give your protagonist a clear and universal stake.

3. Use activity to characterize the future protagonist.

4. Design a twist. Sometimes, this dramatic knot is almost the first element you will have, even before the climax - if the two are not confused. Sometimes, you will find it last.

D. THE DOCUMENTARY

Again, I refer you to my comments on the mechanisms of storytelling applied to documentaries in La dramaturgie [51]. Basically, you need to find the human factor of your project. This mainly involves applying some fundamental principles of drama.

1. Designate a protagonist.

2. Give the protagonist an objective that allows the subject to be addressed.

3. Think about placing some obstacles in their path.

4. Do not string pearls, however spectacular they may be. Avoid the tedious alignment of sketches. Create links between the parts.

5. Be aware that the unusual does not suffice for very long to interest the viewer.

6. If you are making a scientific documentary without a protagonist, stage an inciting incident and pose a question, preferably an emotional question.

The self-produced documentary

In September 2011, I had the opportunity to view a selection of a hundred amateur French documentaries. Some flaws were recurring. Here are some suggestions for self-produced filmmakers. Professional documentarians have the right to read them.

- Mature your project. Even if you bring back images from a highly exotic trip, do not just stick them together and set them to music. Find an angle.

- Have a personal point of view. Get involved. Say "I," even with non-fictional images. You are not making an interlude to fill a gap between two programs. You must not be content to be simply informative.

- Ask yourself why you want to show others what you are filming. What is the interest? Is it only spectacular? Is it truly original? Is it instructive? Moving?

- Do not be content with having a strong, original, or spectacular subject. You must also exploit it, structure it, stage it. It is the form that will capture the viewer's attention.

- Arouse the viewer's curiosity with a hook (an inciting incident, in the broad sense). More generally, structure and dramatize. Beginning, development, end.

- An off-screen commentary should not be more important than the images; it should not contain more interesting information than what you show.

- Your film should not give the impression that it was financed by a tourist office or a company.

- Have your project read if there is a prior written presentation. Once edited, show your film. In short, ask for feedback and learn to receive it.

- Do not rely on the viewer's admiration. They are sensitive to spectacular images - and even then, it only lasts for a while - but they do not care about the difficulty you had in capturing certain images.

E. THE SERIES (TV, COMICS, WEB)

I read here and there that the principle of the three-act structure (dramatic) cannot be applied to the series because, often, there is not a main action but several plots that span many episodes. How does this prevent the use of the classic structure? Unless, once again, logistical acts are confused with dramatic acts, I maintain that the three-act structure is one of the fractal forms of storytelling, and even one of its most important motifs, so it works on all scales and is indispensable in all formats, including the series. A series is a sum of three-act structures, simply richer than the sum present in a unitary story.

The first constraint, if you are writing for an already existing series, is to respect the bible. That is, the document that specifies all the recurring elements of the series.

Here are some suggestions if you are creating a series.

1. Find a general objective for the entire series, even if it is very long. Too many soap operas are started without the authors or producers knowing where they are going. As a result, the series are rather ended by the level of audience than for dramatic reasons.

2. If there are several parallel plots, choose a general objective for each plot. We have already addressed this subject in the chapter dedicated to the pitch (see pages 69-70).

3. Determine a local objective for each episode. The protagonist of a soap opera episode may not necessarily be the general protagonist of the series. If there are several plots, the ideal is to choose one predominant for the episode and simply keep the others alive.

4. Put a hook at the end of each episode.

5. If there are several plots, make sure they intersect as often as possible, one constituting obstacles for the other. This reinforces the unity of the series. To do this, you can proceed as follows. You designate each plot by a letter: A, B, C, etc. Then you design the milestones of each plot. This gives several scenes, which you number from 1 to x. You can then fill in a two-entry table. This gives something like this:
Then, you try to align the scenes of one plot with those of another. Each scene has its protagonist, who can serve as an antagonist for the neighboring plot's scene. This can result in, for example: A1 = E2, B4 = O5, or even C12 = O12 = F9, etc. The series "Un village français" does this brilliantly during the first four seasons. In episode 4 of season 2, for example, one of the plots involves a Jewish family crossing the demarcation line. Along the way, their smuggler (Dan Herzberg) encounters a poacher (Aubert Fenoy). A clue leads the smuggler to realize that his wife is cheating on him. He is so shocked that he sabotages his mission. Thus, a subplot creates an obstacle for another subplot.

The principle I describe here is useful for series with a strong ensemble cast. However, it is not sufficient. If you decide to follow the plots of many characters, you must choose a clear main protagonist and maintain unity of action. This is brilliantly achieved in the first season of "Spartacus" (main protagonist: Spartacus (Andy Whitfield)), "The Wire" (main protagonist: McNulty (Dominic West)), and "Un village français" (up to season 4 inclusive; main protagonist: Daniel Larcher (Robin Renucci)). We discussed this on page 62.

This method is also useful for constructing a unique work containing several subplots, that is, an ensemble work in the style of "The Chase" or "Children of Paradise."

12. FUNDAMENTAL REQUIREMENTS
"I was primarily looking to tell a story... and to tell it clearly."
(Hergé [40])
"Clarity is the most important quality."
(François Truffaut [85])
"I realized that I hadn't been simple enough, clear enough."
(Ingmar Bergman [03])
"It is essential that the audience is perfectly informed of the elements at play."
(Alfred Hitchcock [41])
"An absurd marvel holds no charm for me."
(Nicolas Boileau [10])
"I had the immense joy of entertaining others while entertaining myself."
(René Goscinny [38])
"I spend more time rewriting than writing."
(I.A.L Diamond [24])

I will not revisit what this book has advocated since the first pages, namely that it is preferable to proceed in order and construct the parts like a seamstress. And even before all that, one must be autonomous (cf. page 10). Instead, I want to propose a few precepts to keep in mind at all times, consciously and even unconsciously if possible, when writing. They can be seen as lighthouses in the night of authors, lighthouses whose flame must be constantly maintained. Or better yet, as automatisms, reflexes that eventually flow in the blood of narrators without them realizing it. As you will see, some advice reinforces points already made in previous chapters. These are important reminders in my eyes.

In "Dramaturgy" [51] and in my workshops, I sometimes give the impression of being obsessed with conflict. In fact, I believe that if an author puts a lot of conflict in their story, more precisely a lot of dynamic conflict, their glass will already be half full. Despite this, I will not start with this major element. There is something even more important than putting conflict in a work: one must make choices and be clear.

A. MAKE CHOICES
When starting a story, the field of possibilities is limitless. It's as if you are facing a tree with infinite branches. The freedom is absolute. The feeling can be delightful for some. Unfortunately, those who embrace too much, hold on poorly. You don't have the space to tell the exhaustive story of humanity in two hours. You must tell one specific story and only one. To achieve a unique narrative, you must make millions of decisions. And not just the major decisions that form the foundations (cf. chapter 3). Some choices are obvious and easy. For others, courage and awareness are needed. But the idea is indeed to eliminate an infinite number of branches... except one.

Making choices is often painful. Because choosing is not just about making a decision. It involves giving up everything that was not chosen. If you "choose" to adopt all the ideas that come to you and enchant you, you are not making a choice. It's actually the exact opposite.

I might be a bit heavy on this subject, but I have too often seen, in writing workshops, authors who cannot limit themselves, take responsibility, and make choices. Generally, they go in circles until the workshop ends.

This necessity of choice applies to all elements of the work and, of course, to the end of the story—which I will return to below. Except in rare cases where it makes sense to leave an open ending or to let the audience imagine the ending, you must take responsibility. Every human being necessarily has, consciously or unconsciously, a point of view on the world. An artist has the duty (and the honor) to convey their point of view through their art. Only under this condition can they create a connection with their audience and deserve to be considered an artist. It is not always sufficient, but it is at least a necessary condition.

Personally, when I go to the theater or the cinema, I don't care about agreeing with the author; I just want them to convey their point of view on life. I don't want to extrapolate and "make my own movie."

I think an author who leaves their ending open and takes a stance by explaining that it's up to each viewer to make their own movie is actually someone who doesn't know how to choose.

B. BE CLEAR
The two greatest sins of bad stories are the lack of clarity and the lack of conflict. There are others, of course, but these are the two most damaging. Clarity is the first virtue. The most brilliant thought in the world is lost if it is not transmitted and perceived correctly. It's as if it doesn't exist. Clarity does not prevent subtlety or even ambiguity. Characters and situations can be ambiguous, but not you. It's exactly like barbarism: a character can be barbaric, but it's not desirable for an author to be so.

Being clear means not hiding behind vagueness, postures, and approximations. It is therefore a courageous act. All the more courageous because some believe profound what they do not see the bottom of (as Nietzsche [59] says). As a result, they encourage you to add mystery, false notes, unresolved elements, all of which give them the impression of dealing with something intelligent. Then, being clear means quickly giving the audience a bone to chew on. And only one bone. A single triggering incident, simple or multiple. Clear motivations. A single objective. Clarity is also linked to meaning. Again, being clear and accessible does not mean being light or shallow. It's actually the exact opposite. When a rich and deep work forgets to be clear, everything is lost. Whereas a readable work, even if it says little, at least has the power to convey what it wants to say. In fact, more than depth alone, one could say that it's the product of depth/clarity that counts, a bit like the quality/price ratio in the industry.

The lack of clarity sometimes comes from the gap between what the author believes the audience knows and what the latter actually knows. This often happens with adaptations of pre-existing works. Unable to put everything in, authors remove important information for understanding the story without realizing it. But the phenomenon exists with original texts. Examples abound. At the beginning of "The Damned," Bruckmann (Dirk Bogarde) drives to a property. He talks with the driver (Helmut Griem) about characters we don't know. Moreover, the information is told and not shown.

We retain absolutely nothing from it. It's as if this scene doesn't exist. Many who have seen "The Discreet" know how frustrating the lack of clarity can be. The first nine-tenths of the film are clear and brilliant, but who understood the meaning of the last scenes? In "Insomnia," Will (Al Pacino) has trouble sleeping. Is it because he feels guilty for killing his colleague or because it's daylight at night—the action taking place near the polar circle? Both reasons are mentioned. There is one too many, but don't ask me which one.

The problem also sometimes comes from the fact that the author's thought is not clear itself. "What is well conceived is clearly stated," wrote Boileau [10] in 1674. And Chaplin [17] added: "If there is a subject so deep that it cannot be understood, it is because there is weakness in the artist's means of expression, or else that their brilliant subject was not so brilliant after all." And in an ironic version, under the pen of Goscinny [39]: "I tend to find very intelligent everything I don't understand. Every time I see an obscure film, attend an unintelligible play, or read an impenetrable text, I am deeply depressed. I am depressed because it gives me complexes. And it gives me complexes because I have always been understood." Goscinny is, of course, mocking, but many experience obscurity at face value.

"Providence," for example, begins with shots: a sign, the name of a property (Providence), undergrowth, an interior, a hand spilling a glass, and a voice-over swearing, a cathedral. Then an old man pursued in the forest by soldiers. A courthouse. A helicopter. A man (Dirk Bogarde) in a courtroom. A trial opposes him to a defendant named Woodford (David Warner). A woman (Ellen Burstyn) is in the audience, whose relationship with the trial characters is unknown. Part of the dialogue is heard over a shot of this woman. Then we see a corpse being autopsied. The hand pours a drink. Exit from the courtroom. The woman is named Sonia; she takes the defendant to a restaurant where they meet her husband, the prosecutor. He lost the trial. Then we see soldiers pushing old people into a stadium. Then Sonia takes Woodford home, ready to give herself to him. He doesn't seem in a hurry. The voice-over comments on the scene. We finally see the face of the voice-over. It doesn't resemble the autopsied body.

In short, within fifteen minutes, we are treated to a mise en abyme, flashbacks, images, nightmares, ramblings, double roles, and a voice-over without a certain owner. Is it necessary to specify that this puzzle is not of exemplary clarity? In fact, one must read David Mercer's screenplay to understand the beginning of the film. In scene 11 of his screenplay, the author provides some of the keys (and still...) in a text that appears as the perfect example of what should never be written in a screenplay: "On Mark Eddington's face, we hear the Narrator's voice-over, and we soon understand (sic!) that the scenes we are witnessing are fragments of a book the Narrator is imagining. The writer is Claud's father (N.B.: the prosecutor), a distinguished and famous old gentleman, whose body must face physical degradation, whose mind sometimes wanders, and who drinks too much. During a solitary night, he comments aloud on the film's action—that is, the book he is working on—talking to himself, evoking memories, expressing his fear of the approaching death. At this point in his work, dreaming of this novel that may be his last, he uses for his characters the real names of his son Claud, his daughter-in-law Sonia (N.B.: the woman in the courtroom), and Kevin, his natural son (N.B.: Woodford)."

"Is it such a great evil to be heard when speaking and to speak like everyone else?" asked La Bruyère [47] to Acis, the false spirit.

I just spoke about the most important clarity, the one that will allow the audience to receive your story. But there is another, the one concerning the reader of your text. Being clear also means doing everything to make your story easy to read. A simple example: don't give your characters names that resemble each other. If you have three female characters, don't call them Anne, Aline, and Alice. Certainly, when the characters are embodied by actors, there will be no more ambiguity—if the actors themselves do not resemble each other—but, in reading, it is a source of confusion.

C. BE FEROCIOUS WITH YOUR PROTAGONIST
I almost wrote "Be cruel with your protagonist," but the word "cruel" is sometimes misinterpreted. It is often confused with "sadistic," for example. In any case, you must make your protagonist experience as much conflict as possible, push them to their limits, twist the knife in one of their wounds.

Too many stories lack conflict. I see two possible reasons for this. Either the author loves their protagonist too much to harm them. In this case, they don't understand that the best way to make them endearing and even to do them a favor is precisely not to spare them. Or the author is in a fantasy. Because their own life is a nightmare, they project their desire for harmony, power, ease, or virtuosity onto their protagonist. Let's be clear, I love harmony. Yes, yes, I swear. But in my personal life. In fiction, if there is no conflict, the audience gets bored. It's as simple as that.

Once again, making a character experience as much conflict as possible implies that the conflict is both measured and dynamic. If the conflict is too strong and the protagonist can do nothing, we have a scene of torture, in the broad sense.

I remind you that conflict can take a more subtle and original form than the tedious fight, the endless shootout, or the imperishable marital dispute. A Tunisian filmmaker, Nadia El Fani, once came to a writing workshop with a very interesting scene because it presented an unusual type of conflict. Most of the time, a scene's obstacle is antagonistic. That is, it goes in the same direction as the objective, but negatively. Two people who oppose each other generally have the same concerns (convincing, being the strongest, finding first, etc., all on the same subject). Nadia El Fani's scene told the story of a revolutionary who returns to her friend's home after spending some time in prison. Surprise: her friend lives with another woman. A dialogue of the deaf ensues, the young woman reproaching her friend for forgetting her for another and the young man worrying about whether she gave him to the militiamen. This shift in conflict was all the more interesting because it occurred without the help of the preferred tool for shifts: dramatic irony.

Exhausting first time
The "fish out of water" is a well-known type of story. It involves placing a character in an environment unknown to them, forcing them to adapt, learn, and be creative. "E.T.," "Time After Time," and "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" offer three beautiful examples of this specific genre. Specific? What if all stories were or should be of the "fish out of water" type, in the broad sense? Not because the protagonist is projected into an unknown arena but because the action pushes them to do things they have never done. If you don't take your fish out of the water, ask it to walk in its bowl. Isn't that a good way to be ferocious with your protagonist, to push them to their limits?

Having only one father, Hamlet is confronted with an event he has never experienced (the death of his father), but it is probably also the first time he must avenge the murder of a loved one ("Hamlet"). Oedipus has certainly never conducted a police investigation, let alone one where he is the culprit ("Oedipus Rex"). Cyrano has never tried to woo a young woman through an interposed dandy ("Cyrano de Bergerac"). Anne Sullivan ("The Miracle Worker") has just graduated from her educators' school at the age of twenty. Taking care of Helen Keller is her first job. If Joe (Tony Curtis) and Jerry (Jack Lemmon) dressed as women every two months, "Some Like It Hot" wouldn't be as impactful. If Roger Thornhill (Cary Grant) were a professional spy and on his tenth kidnapping, we would be less attentive to his adventure ("North by Northwest"). It's one of the reasons why James Bond bores me prodigiously. His adventures are routine. In "Groundhog Day," Phil (Bill Murray) experiences two firsts: 1 - he must relive the same dismal day over and over again, 2 - he must love sincerely. In short, the ordeal you will throw your protagonist into must be exceptional for them as well as for the audience. Your story will then be delightful and can do without pyrotechnics, savagery, and all-powerfulness.

Being ferocious with your protagonist forces you to reveal their determination. An endearing protagonist is a character who does not give up and is even willing to go very far to achieve their goal.

D. BE RUTHLESS WITH YOURSELF
Do not be complacent. Beware, like the plague, of the old adage: "A priori, if it interests me, it will necessarily interest the public." Because it confuses your thought ("interests me") with its translation ("will interest the public"). An author always knows much more about their story than what they give to the audience. First, because you can't put everything in a work, then because you don't always put in correctly what you had in mind. It's not enough to have interesting ideas to interest the public; you also need to know how to exploit them. In short, if the translation of the thought is not adequate, the public will not be offered precisely what interested the author.

Another dangerous adage: "The essential thing is to be sincere." As if an artist or even a human being in general could do something of their own free will and not be sincere. Even Claude Chabrol, when he botches "Dr. M," is sincere. To be insincere, you need a machine gun on your belly, the Inquisition on your heels, or an abusive producer on your back. In short, the question of sincerity is a non-issue. If it's a necessary condition for producing a quality work, it's clear that it's far from being a sufficient condition.

A crucial requirement: necessity
We have already discussed the principle of necessity regarding character creation. I have seen how difficult it is for many authors to accept. It infringes on their sacrosanct freedom. I remind you that a human being's freedom is entirely relative. We will never be Monet, Molière, or Mozart, for example. We have to make do with what we have, and we don't always have the freedom—the permission, as Eric Berne [04] would say—to truly be ourselves. And then, if the author is "free" to choose their point of view and make their initial choices, they are then subject to a multitude of obligations. We just talked about this above (and in chapter 3), you cannot leave all doors open indefinitely. Of all the arts, dramaturgy is probably the most constraining, partly because it requires a lot of consideration for the audience. Of course, you can always disregard them and just please yourself. But is the freedom to disdain the public a fundamental freedom, the kind that would deserve, for example, to be included in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights? Is it even a freedom at all?

Most often, the part of works that best respects this principle of necessity is the first act. The author presents what they need to tell their story without wasting time. In this respect, the beginnings of "The School for Wives," "The Grand Maneuver," "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington," or "The ComDads" are remarkable. Unfortunately, the second act is rarely constructed with the same rigor and too often gives the impression of filler—the worst examples not being, by far, the four works above.

Sincerely a charlatan, one might add. Chabrol admitted that he didn't understand himself what he had done in "Dr. M"!
An author often struggles to let go of an idea, a scene, or a character. The fact that they are not necessary is not enough to convince him to "cut off a finger." Remember that the talent and sensitivity that found a beautiful idea will have no trouble finding another, equally beautiful and more useful. In other words, if something is cut, it's more like a lizard's tail than a finger.

A crucial requirement: economy

Economy, which involves not diluting each piece of information and condensing as much as possible, is rewarding for the audience. Its principle is directly related to the audience's mental acuity and their ability to receive a dramatic work. At the very beginning of cinema, when transitioning from one shot to another on the same action, the same thing was shown twice, at the end of the first shot and the beginning of the second, to ensure the audience wasn't confused by the editing. Today, in an era where some advertisements tell a story in twenty seconds, the audience is better educated, more receptive. Authors can say more in less time. Ellipses, unity of time, and small bits of activity, which convey in two seconds what dialogues took two minutes to express, are tools of economy. And again, this applies to theater, sometimes hampered by its verbosity.

Know the narrative off-screen

Every narrative provides a certain amount of information to its receiver. For it to be coherent, it is obvious that its author must know much more. As we've seen, this is the case with character characterization. You must know where they come from and what they have in mind, even if not everything will be included in the final result.

This is also the case with ellipses. An ellipse can only work if you know exactly what is in the omitted part. It is not a sufficient condition, but it is at least a necessary one. I've seen authors skip an event because they didn't want to tell it and end up with an inconsistency because they hadn't made the effort to see in detail how they went from A to C. At the beginning of 'Un homme à la hauteur,' Diane (Virginie Efira) meets Alexandre (Jean Dujardin) over the phone. They meet in person in a café, where Alexandre suggests Diane cancel her appointments on the spot and follow him on an adrenaline experience without telling her more. Cut. We find them in a plane, in the sky, in parachute suits, clinging to each other. And Diane screams that she's scared! But she jumps anyway. Question: how did she end up there without protesting earlier? Did Alexandre drug her? I tried to imagine the ellipsed scene. Alexandre takes Diane to a skydiving club, suggests she put on a parachute suit, get on a plane, and stand in front of him, right against him—even though they don't know each other and there is sexual tension between them. And Diane said yes? A bit light, but why not. Once in the air, to believe this scene, I miss a dialogue like "Stop! I was wrong to say yes down there." Because Diane still has the choice not to jump. I suspect the authors didn't question the content of their ellipse.

In short, you must know everything behind the scenes of your narrative, whether those backstage elements relate to events or characterizations. Your receiver will only see the tip of the iceberg, but the invisible part must exist and be solid enough to hold everything together.

E. BE SIMPLE AND EXPLOIT

For playwright and filmmaker David Mamet, a good script is a simple starting point undergoing unpredictable twists and turns. We've already talked about simplicity regarding the number of characters. Simple does not mean simplistic, just as complex does not mean complicated. Simple means the author puts few eggs in their basket and whips them well, exploits them well, makes them perform unpredictable twists and turns. However, milking is one of the most difficult techniques to master. "Being simple is difficult; the simpler you are, the more complicated you are at the same time, but in a deep way, not superficially," says Roman Polanski. And Joseph Losey adds: "Simplicity is what one can wish for the best, but it is also the hardest to achieve." As a result, most authors prefer to complicate superficially. This is how we see characters or subplots flourish that are nothing but filler. "All this great number of incidents," writes Racine, "has always been the refuge of poets who did not feel in their genius enough abundance or strength to engage their spectators for five acts (logistics) with a simple action." In 'Les compères,' Francis Veber has a golden subject: two completely dissimilar individuals (Pierre Richard, Gérard Depardieu) set out to find a teenager (Stéphane Bierry) each believes to be his son. And, of course, they continually dispute paternity. The film starts off with a bang. It's brilliant. I regret that instead of going deep into his subject—which was far from easy—and exploiting this situation full of potential to the maximum, Veber added a police subplot that weakens his film. Even though the film contains excellent moments, funny and human, there are too many eggs and not as much snow as hoped.

Another example: the truck scene from 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' is a magnificent milking scene. In the third episode of the series ('Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade'), the authors serve us the same scene again, but they lose simplicity. As if they were saying, "Oh, you liked the truck scene? Wait. This time, it won't be a truck but three tanks!" In short, there are too many eggs. The whole film is at this level: nods and escalation. As a result, it doesn't have the crystalline purity of the first episode.

Exploiting is sometimes arduous. Whipping up what you've set up requires creativity and sometimes courage. I've often seen, in my workshops, authors who are afraid of simplicity, who don't trust their project, who can't milk or who beat around the bush. They add eggs, cows, characters, subplots, flashbacks. And of course, deconstruction. They put the beginning at the end and the end in the middle.

In Chapter 4, I talked about the "What if...?" formula regarding strong premises. There is another "What if...?" among authors, which operates during writing. What if my protagonist was a surf fan? What if the villain used a milling machine instead? What if the driver said nothing? What if the neighbor had cancer? These "ideas" are sometimes escapes. The author doesn't start from a narrative problem to solve; they let their imagination wander and find dispensable ideas.

Often the avoidance is unconscious. Be at least able to sound the alarm when you notice you're overloading your boat. I am convinced that the more complicated a narrative is, the more it loses in accuracy and humanity.

Ambiguity and ambiguity

The principles of clarity and simplicity do not exclude ambiguity. But there is ambiguity and ambiguity. The latter is often a posture or a pretext not to work too hard. One thinks the audience will piece things together on their own. True ambiguity does not exist in doubt and confusion. Quite the opposite. If you want to create, for example, an ambiguous character, it is necessary to proceed step by step. You start by clearly presenting a trait of their character. And only when this trait is well established do you bring nuances, shadows, elements of doubt. Like in the example of the lady who disapproves of nudists. Putting all the colors at once is confusing ambiguity with muddle.

F. INVOLVE THE AUDIENCE

Among the works that strive to tell something, there are, roughly, two categories: those that involve the receiver and those that leave them on the sidelines. In the second case, there is a subcategory where it is clear that the author knows what they are doing, knows where they are going, but has not taken care to sufficiently inform their receiver. Generally, it is only at the end that we understand where the author wanted to go.

The first hour of 'The Lonesome West' is a routine of life, both biting and endless, presenting the antagonism of two brothers. In the middle of the play, a priest writes to the two brothers and asks them to reconcile. The climax is the (difficult) reconciliation scene. As I've already had the opportunity to write, the climax of a narrative is its biggest payoff. When the climax of 'The Lonesome West' arrives, I finally understand where Martin McDonagh wanted to go. It is regrettable that he did not take care to include in his play the biggest preparation of a narrative, namely the declaration of purpose. In my opinion, the play would have worked better if the author had designated the priest as the protagonist, with the goal of reconciling the two brothers. It wouldn't have sold the end of the work. It would have just allowed me to participate.

First tool of participation: clarity

Where we find the question of clarity, which touches all positions, from writing to casting, staging, and presentation conditions of the works. It is clearly an essential concern among great storytellers. In the 'Blueberry' series albums, Jean-Michel Charlier regularly offers topographic maps to help us locate the action. In 'The Seven Samurai,' Kurosawa shows us the village plan several times to make us understand the layout of the places. Later, Shimada (Takashi Shimura) checks off the number of bandits eliminated on a board. The same Kurosawa often quoted for saying: "A really good film is interesting and easy to understand." In 'The Man Who Knew Too Much,' Hitchcock does everything to familiarize us with a crucial piece of music for the action. The authors of 'Lagaan' are so clear that they manage to make us understand the rules of one of the most complicated sports in the world (with palm): cricket. And in addition, while entertaining us. Hats off! At the end of 'Once Upon a Time in the West,' at the time of the great final duel, the authors explain to us, with a flashback, why Harmonica (Charles Bronson) is pursuing Frank (Henry Fonda). It is interesting to note that this flashback informs the audience but not Frank. It is only when Harmonica puts his musical instrument in Frank's mouth that Frank understands who he is dealing with.

To appreciate the benefits of clarity in dramaturgy, I invite you to compare the two narratives drawn from 'Monsieur Hire's Engagements' by Georges Simenon. A heinous crime is committed by a young woman's lover. Monsieur Hire, a cultured and asocial loner, witnessed the crime but his misanthropy made him keep the evidence to himself instead of giving it to the police. The young woman knows that Monsieur Hire knows the murderer. She takes advantage of his attraction to her to make him take the blame for the crime. Blinded by love, M. Hire lets himself be fooled. In the adaptation by Charles Spaak and Julien Duvivier ('Panique'), we quickly know that M. Hire (Michel Simon) witnessed the murder and we quickly understand that the young woman (Viviane Romance) is framing him. Dramatic irony of which Hire is a victim. In the adaptation by Patrick Dewolf and Patrice Leconte ('Monsieur Hire'), we learn all these elements at the end, in the form of surprise and clarification. Not only is it less rewarding, but it prevents us from fully participating in the story, from fully understanding the characters' motivations. It lacks emotion and... participation.

Second tool of participation: preparation

Preparation is the second major tool for audience participation. All forms of preparation. The one that makes things plausible. The one that allows dramatization. The one that informs the audience about the stakes, motivations, ghost, or dramatic need of a character. The one that creates an ellipse. And then the one that consists of exploiting what you set up.

Imagine a juggler arriving in a circus ring with a basket. In his basket, everyone can see balls, tennis rackets, and torches. The juggler performs a number with the balls, then with the rackets. Then he packs up his things and leaves. What does the audience say? "And what about the torches?!" In other words, if you don't want to juggle with the torches—and it's your strictest right—don't put them in your basket, don't risk your audience seeing them.

If you consciously place an announcement in your work, it will seem logical to exploit it. But many elements in a narrative are announcements, sometimes discreet and subtle. The notions of announcement and scene to be done join the idea that an author creates expectations in the audience and that it is their responsibility to take them into account. When you start designing a narrative, you are completely free, you can open all doors. We've talked about it above. But as soon as you start making choices and reducing your field of possibilities, you can no longer do just anything. You are free to disappoint the audience, to show subversion, but it is better to do it knowingly rather than out of laziness, incompetence, or arrogance. In short, it is not degrading to think about the scenes to be done. First, because a scene to be done can very well play with the audience's expectations and surprise them. Making the audience participate and stroking them the right way are two very distinct things. But also because a scene to be done is often one of the key scenes of the work, the one where you will put your guts, the pot of intimacy and authenticity around which some circle instead of entering.

In short, always remember that 1 - all information must serve; 2 - do not promise what you cannot deliver.

Third tool of participation: dramatic irony

No need to draw a picture. The mere fact of giving the audience information that at least one character ignores is a barely veiled address to the receiver of the dramaturgy. Is it necessary to recall that the audience is fond of dramatic irony, whether to create comedy, to move, or to scare?

Fourth tool of participation: self-confidence

Imagine the following scene. A company boss summons one of his employees to an empty conference room and invites him to sit while he remains standing. The boss is accompanied by an assistant, also standing. Both look at each other knowingly. The employee, for his part, is a bit embarrassed. He goes to sit down when he realizes he has chosen a chair that turns its back to his boss. He stops mid-course and chooses another chair among the seventeen empty chairs in the room. He sits down, the chair creaks, and he finds himself on the floor. The boss thanks his employee. The latter leaves the room, disconcerted. Then the boss turns to his assistant and asks for explanations. The assistant tells him he sabotaged one of the chairs, just one out of seventeen, and that's precisely the one the unlucky employee "chose." What do we have in this scene? A bit of mystery, a surprise, and a clarification.

Now imagine the assistant explaining his stratagem to the boss at the very beginning, even before the employee arrives, with the rest of the scene unfolding exactly the same way. An amateur author would be afraid, by proceeding this way, of giving all the cards to the audience and ruining the suspense, the pleasure, and so on. But the opposite happens! The second formula (adopted and brilliantly exploited by Francis Veber at the beginning of 'La chèvre') stages an announcement and dramatic irony. The audience certainly has many cards in hand, but they don't have all the answers. This allows them to fully participate in the action. They are even more eager to know what will happen. They are even more attentive.

If you are afraid of saying too much, you will be tempted to withhold information, to play the mystery card. Let it be clear, as long as you don't sell the dramatic answer, you can tell the audience everything. And even. Even when the dramatic answer is known, the audience can be interested in a narrative if, for example, they don't know how this dramatic answer was provided.

Already involve the reader

Involving the audience also means not falling into the classic trap of describing, in the text, what the audience should feel. For example: "Suddenly, GERALD, 42 years old, tall and endearing, enters the kitchen." Being endearing (moving, exciting, etc.) is not a physical characteristic, it's a narrative quality. It's up to you to make your character endearing and for us to be the judges. Another example: "He then has an unexpected reaction: he bursts out laughing" or "Simone reacts in a surprising way." If a character's reaction is truly unexpected, the reader will realize it without being told. Or: "You can feel that Dupont is sad." If Dupont is sad, show it, don't write it. By forcing yourself not to cheat with the reader of your narrative, you will contribute to involving said reader but also, ultimately, the audience.

G. BE DISSOCIATED

Dramaturgy has the power to reveal the thoughts, desires, and emotions of others. It is clear that an author cannot showcase the thoughts, desires, and emotions of their characters if they do not know or feel them acutely. In other words, you must know at all times what is happening in the minds of your characters, all your characters (not just your protagonist). You will tend to try to know what will happen in the mind of your audience, which is quite legitimate. But, in reality, your task is double (and heavy): you must be able to put yourself, at any moment, in the place of your characters and in the place of your audience.

H. UNDERSTAND ALL YOUR CHARACTERS

A corollary of the above, you must understand all your characters and even give them reason, each in their system. The motivation of a secondary character is never to create obstacles for the protagonist. If it is, you are manipulating puppets. A character's motivation is to satisfy their needs (including the most barbaric), which may have the side effect of creating obstacles for the protagonist.

A trick is to imagine your characters at the bar of a trial. They are accused and defend themselves. They argue. "I did what any patriotic citizen would have done in my place." "It was for his own good, Madam Prosecutor, I was so afraid he wouldn't find a job at the exit." "I was just following orders. If we start questioning the hierarchy's orders all the time, it never ends." "It's stronger than me, Mr. Judge, when I see a beautiful pair of buttocks, I can't control myself. You can understand. We're not made of wood, after all!" "I didn't think it would have such consequences, it was just to help him." "He was an apostate, Mr. Commissioner! He didn't deserve to live, God said so."

Similarly, a secondary character's motivation cannot be to provide useful information for the action. This may be their function, but it does not exempt you from giving them a goal.

Be careful, however, there is a trap in understanding all your characters and putting yourself in their place, that of conferring another character the status of protagonist, and thus losing the true protagonist. I have already pointed out this risk to you. Be aware of it and avoid making too many conflicts live for all the characters other than the protagonist. Give them goals and motivations but not necessarily obstacles.

I. DRAMATIZE

The word "dramatize" has roughly the same meaning in everyday life and in writing. It is about giving importance to things. In our activity as authors, it consists of finding the most dramatic situation to transmit or exploit a narrative element. In other words, to prepare the context to give the narrative element a setting made of conflict, stakes, and suspense.

Imagine that at a moment in the narrative, your protagonist takes drugs. You can gloss over it as if it doesn't matter much. They are offered cocaine at a party without it having consequences. And why not. But if you consider that this cocaine use is not trivial, you must value it, give it importance. For example, you will first show that your protagonist is healthy. They may even be proud not to indulge in drugs. You will show that at some point, they are overworked or depressed, in short, they are in a state that makes doping products tempting. We can imagine that they are offered cocaine and they reject it vehemently. Finally, when they take it, they tell themselves it's just for once. You can even create a character of a reasonable contradictor.

Imagine that your protagonist must discover or understand something important. A resolution of dramatic irony, for example. You can place them in a context where they will have every opportunity to react as they please. But you can also put them in a situation where they are forced to hide their emotion. You then double the conflict. This is what Brecht does in 'Mother Courage and Her Children.' When Mother Courage must recognize the body of her youngest son, she is forced to pretend it is not him at the very moment she recognizes him, lest she betray herself in the eyes of the soldiers.

Imagine Butch Cassidy (Paul Newman) and Sundance Kid (Robert Redford) riding horses in the desert. They talk about everything and nothing, their childhood, their first loves. And, at one point, between the pear and the cheese, Sundance tells Butch he can't swim. You have information that is poorly introduced. You can, on the contrary, like William Goldman in 'Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid,' put the two protagonists at the top of a cliff overlooking a...
torrent. They are cornered by lawmen. They've drawn their revolvers, ready to defend themselves, when Butch suggests jumping into the torrent below. Sundance categorically refuses. Butch insists until Sundance, cornered, admits: "I can't swim!" If you do this, you've dramatized the information.

The example of Eve given on page 270 is another example of dramatization. Eve's (Anne Baxter) past is revealed at the most appropriate moment and in a way that creates maximum conflict for her. Just when the ambitious Eve thinks she has won everything, she is caught by her lies, giving Addison DeWitt (George Sanders) the means to control her.

There is at least one thing that every worthy author dramatizes, and that is their ending. An author who knows where they are going will do everything to prepare and highlight their climax, their dramatic response, and their third act. But that's not enough. All significant elements of the story must be dramatized.

I mean "significant." It's not about dramatizing every little element. You're not going to dramatize the fact that a character is five foot nine, loves cashews, or only has sisters. If, in the middle of the action, the protagonist gets into a car, it's probably not necessary to make a big deal out of it. In short, it all depends on what you're telling.

You can even dramatize harmonious events. Imagine your protagonist experiences a series of local successes. You need to show it to advance the action, but you're embarrassed because it's not conflictual. A classic solution is to make a quick montage sequence. But you can also have these successes recounted by a secondary character who finds it difficult and who, of course, will be a source of obstacles later. In other words, your protagonist's momentary success turns into a prospect of conflict.

J. DON'T SAY, SHOW

I return to this fundamental rule, already addressed in chapters 6 and 7. It is not only fundamental, it is also famous and abundantly cited. Everyone understands that in dramaturgy, you have to show things and not say them. From this important rule, which no one disputes, things go awry. Because many conclude that everything must go through the visual and therefore through the image. Especially in cinema, which is supposedly essentially an art of the image.

Double mistake. First, in literature too, it's better to show than to say. However, in literature, there is nothing to see, everything is in the reader's imagination. Second, the best tool for showing things is not the image but the action. Of course, in theater, cinema, and comics, action partly goes through the image. But not only. Action also uses dialogue. And above all, action uses conflict, characterization, and preparation.

Even if dialogue is sometimes an easy solution, you can very well show with dialogue. When Carreidas, at the beginning of Flight 714 to Sydney, calls an auctioneer, tells him that the next sale doesn't interest him, that he already has more Renoirs and Picassos than he knows what to do with, but that if Onassis is involved, then he'll buy at any price, when Carreidas says all this, he is characterized. When the career counselor (Julie Ferrier) in Today, It's Ferrier! says in a sharp tone: "Miss, do you think you can achieve your dreams in life?!", it's nothing but dialogue and yet the characterization of the character comes through. We learn something about the career counselor that is shown and not said. It would be said if the career counselor said: "I gave up my dreams and have kept a lot of bitterness." In short, showing things instead of saying them can involve using dialogues.

Moreover, showing, even effectively, may not be enough. Imagine one of your characters is angry. Everyone agrees, he shouldn't just say "Grrrr, I'm angry!" You have to show it. So, your character will scream, flail, protest, break something, or even turn green and Herculean. You will have shown the anger but you will not necessarily have explained it. I think it's not enough to show, you also have to justify. You have to make us understand why a character is angry. By showing the damage, for example. Explaining has multiple advantages: it makes events credible, it allows the receiver to participate, it helps characterize the character, it can create a foreshadowing, and it can even allow you to do less. If we know the reasons for the anger, it can be expressed in a restrained or original way.

K. USE THE MOST POWERFUL LANGUAGES

A language is a system of signs intended to create meaning or emotion. Dramaturgy is made up of several languages that do not all have the same effectiveness. In order, from least powerful to most powerful:

- dialogue (spoken language);
- activity (language of gestures);
- characterization (language of actions);
- structure and preparation work (language of scenes).

In other words, when you want to convey information or create a particular feeling in the viewer, always ask yourself if the structure can allow it. And rely on dialogue only as a last resort.

You will have noticed that the language of images is not part of the list above. This is because in dramaturgy, whether in cinema or theater, everything goes through image and sound (in comics, through image and text). A gesture, an action, a payment are often conveyed by an image. In other words, the image can be used at all levels. This means that the visual—which obsesses some cinema theorists—can sometimes be powerful and sometimes unproductive. At the beginning of Rear Window, a tracking shot shows us the interior of an apartment. We see cameras, magazines, and a photograph of a car accident. Hitchcock doesn't just characterize the apartment's owner, he tries to tell us how Jeff (James Stewart) broke his leg. I write "tries" because in my opinion, it doesn't work very well. The image of a human being in action is much more telling than a succession of static images that the viewer must piece together.

L. CREATE CONNECTION

Have you noticed how obsessed TV presenters are with connection? They are so uncomfortable stringing pearls and jumping from one topic to another that they are filled with gratitude as soon as they are offered the slightest transition. And when they have nothing to move from a presidential election in Bolivia to the results of the Six Nations Tournament, they serve us the classic "Without transition..." I mock, but in truth, we are all obsessed with connection and structure. It's a fundamental human need.

In dramaturgy, this need is satisfied in four ways. The first connection exists in all artistic activities as soon as the artist takes care to reach out to their receiver. The second connection is the one that unites the viewer with the character they identify with. As the author projects themselves into their protagonist, we see that the character is an intermediary between author and receiver. The third connection concerns the communion that occurs between the spectators of the same performance. Theater and cinema offer rituals, religious experiences, in the etymological sense of the term "religious." Finally, the fourth connection is the one that interests us here: the organic dimension of your story. This connection between the different parts of the work is even double. It is often causal but it can also be thematic.

Give us the impression that your narrative elements fit together perfectly, that nothing is there by chance, that the life of your fictional universe makes sense and that your work breathes unity. For this, there aren't thirty-six ways, you must make the elements of the story pay off as much as possible. This must become a reflex.

A reflex that saved Andrew Stanton [78] and his co-authors in writing Toy Story. (Note: Warning, the following reveals the ending.) "The film," explains Stanton, "ends with Buzz and Woody chasing a truck to get home. They absolutely must catch this truck but their batteries are dead and it seems obvious they won't make it. The script said Woody had one last match that he uses to light a rocket that propels them into the truck. We watched this scene and realized that the audience, very aware of how films work, would immediately identify this match as the last hope that will save our heroes." Indeed, the writers had created what is called a "telephone," the worst form of foreshadowing. "At this point," continues Stanton, "the film was over before the end! So we thought Woody could indeed light the match but a passing car could blow it out! We all exclaimed: 'Great! They're lost!'" Phew. Intelligently, the writers turned the telephone into a red herring. The same principle is at work in Life is Beautiful (1997). When we see the doctor (Horst Buchholz) in the concentration camp, we are convinced he will help Guido (Roberto Benigni). It's a telephone. Fortunately, a beautiful surprise awaits the protagonist and the viewer. But back to Toy Story. Unlike Benigni and Cerami, Stanton and his co-authors nevertheless found themselves with a problem: "We loved the idea of what it would do to the audience watching the film but we had no idea how our heroes would finally get out of these problems. (...) We watched other parts of the film again and came across this scene where Sid burns a small hole on Woody's forehead with a magnifying glass and we thought that the same effect could be used to ignite the flame. Woody could remember the incident and use it." The moment Woody uses Buzz's plastic helmet is therefore a payoff of the scene with Sid. The deep connection established at that moment gives the film an extremely gratifying organic dimension.

Units

Creating a connection between the different parts of the work nurtures the sense of unity that your story exudes. After the unity of action, organic unity is the most important. Other means can strengthen the impression of unity:

- focus the action on a short period of time;
- confine the action to a handful of locations;
- deal with only one action (thus avoiding subplots);
- connect any subplots with the same theme.

Even in cases where you have a clear and unique protagonist with a clear and unique objective, it happens that they are not present in all scenes. Certainly, the omnipresence of the protagonist is a strong element of unity (cf. The School for Wives, City Lights, or North by Northwest) but you may need to stage other characters than your protagonist. A factor of connection and unity then consists in talking about them in their absence. In Act IV of Hamlet, Hamlet goes to England and Shakespeare does not follow him. We stay in Denmark but Hamlet is still the topic of conversation. In scenes 6 and 7, his letters are read. And in scene 7, Claudius and Laertes plot his death. In short, the protagonist is not physically present but he is on everyone's mind and lips.

M. BE PLAUSIBLE

The story is a symbolic representation of life. We don't ask it to copy life, we ask it to evoke it. You are therefore entitled to the fourth wall, black and white, metaphors, all the artifices, as long as they allow you to do what Shakespeare invites us to in the prologue of Henry V: fill the imperfections with thought and appeal to the power of imagination.

But the suspension of disbelief has limits. The viewer is not ready to swallow just anything and fill all the gaps. They want to believe. They need a minimum of logic and plausibility. The balance is delicate because not all viewers have the same tolerance threshold for the implausible. Some viewers of Life is Beautiful (1997) did not understand that the film should be considered a fable and did not adhere to it for this reason. Some viewers of I Confess can't believe that a priest (Montgomery Clift) who receives the confession of a murderer (Otto Hasse) is so bound by professional secrecy that he remains silent and even lets himself be accused of the crime (cf. pages 274-275). Another example: The Goat, whose project was rejected by a French producer—who had already worked with Francis Veber—because he didn't believe in the character of the chronically unlucky person.

There it is, the magic word: believe. Be the first to believe in your inventions and your fable. It may not be a sufficient condition to be plausible but it is clearly a necessary condition. Remember with Boileau [10] that "the truth can sometimes not be plausible," that between the two it is better to choose the latter and that preparation is the ideal tool to make your story plausible.

I have mainly talked about structural plausibility. But there is another area where the need for plausibility is acute: the psychology of the characters. I think you cannot rely solely on your unconscious to be coherent. Because it has its limits. The collective unconscious of the audience always knows more than our own author's unconscious on the matter. To care for the psychology of your characters, the humanities can help but life itself is also wonderful—when considered as a school and a library of infinite dimensions, and when constantly drawn from.

N. BE SPECIFIC

We talked about the importance of being specific regarding characterization (page 137), the objective (pages 146-147 and 162-163), the arena (page 167), and dialogue (page 265). In fact, this requirement is valid for all elements of your story. And at all stages. At the time of writing the foundations as well as the dialogue continuity. A protagonist, for example, cannot have as their only objective that everything goes well. It's much too vague. Who doesn't want to easily succeed in what they undertake? You must be more concrete, more precise, more specific.

Don't write: "He makes an inappropriate gesture." There are dozens of inappropriate gestures. Write: "He puts his hand on his crotch." If your character honks a horn, ask yourself what sound the horn makes. It doesn't have to be original at all costs. But it can make sense. In any case, it's always worth asking the question. In The Easy Life, Bruno (Vittorio Gassman) has a sports car with a show-off horn.

In short, be precise in everything and call a spade a spade. In addition to adding value to your story, you will do an immense service to the actors who will embody your characters as well as to the technicians (props master, sound editor...).

O. RESOLVE YOUR STORY

I return to the question of the ending, already addressed in chapter 10. Authors who consider themselves cinematic phoenixes and view the story as a pretext often have the unfortunate habit of not finishing their film. How many times do we see the end credits start in the middle of nowhere and leave us stunned by such negligence (or such artistic posture). The boldness, again, would be to tell the story well rather than cowardly shirking this responsibility.

In short, if you think you are as much a craftsman as a genius artist, constantly keep in mind that when you set up a narrative element, you announce its resolution. This is true for everything: an objective, a character, dramatic irony, a subplot, a trajectory question, etc. We have already talked about it but I insist.

Let's be clear. Announcing a resolution is making the essential partner, the viewer, feel that you are going to resolve what you have set up. It's not telling the viewer how you are going to do it, it's not giving away all the answers in advance. And, when the time comes, take your responsibilities. Don't do like Paul Thomas Anderson, in Magnolia, who drops thousands of frogs on all his characters' heads to end with a bang but who, casually, leaves several subplots unresolved.

A succinct and significant third act

Resolving your story also means not lingering in the third act, unless of course you adopt an enriched structure. Don't give the viewer the impression that you don't know what you're doing and that you're wandering at the whim of your inspiration of the moment. No Country for Old Men tells the story of a welder (Josh Brolin) who stumbles upon a suitcase full of money and decides to take it. He is pursued by a killer (Javier Bardem), Mexicans, a policeman (Tommy Lee Jones), and a sort of detective (Woody Harrelson). The welder is inventive and cautious. We are with him. Unfortunately, the end of the film is a total botch. The confrontation between the protagonist and the killer comes too early. Part of the climax is elided. After that, we follow the secondary characters for twenty minutes. The killer gets hit by a car without us knowing why. And the cop tells an uninteresting dream. Watch the last half-hour of No Country for Old Men to get an idea of what to avoid. When adapting Cormac McCarthy's novel, the Coen brothers should have known that what can pass in literature does not necessarily work in dramaturgy.

Life goes on, with its share of questions

Maximizing viewer participation and resolving what you have set up does not mean that everything must be clear and wrapped up, as if life stopped at the end of your story. You can leave something in the shadows, a detail in suspense. In a way, you will thus leave the viewer with an accurate image of life and its mysteries.

I am aware of walking on eggshells with this suggestion. Because I don't find it desirable to end a story on a thick mystery, to leave the viewer to piece things together on their own, or to propose one thing and its opposite. In Broken Flowers, Don (Bill Murray) seeks to find out who sent him a letter announcing he has a son. He comes up empty. At the end, a teenager (Homer Murray) comes to see Don but the authors don't tell us if it's his son—the fact that the teenager is played by the actor Bill Murray's own son doesn't even clarify things for the few viewers who notice. In short, it's artistic posing in all its "splendor." The authors ask us to spend ninety minutes of our lives interested in their story and they don't even have the politeness of the authors of Citizen Kane or Waiting for Godot: the one that consists of enlightening the viewer, if not the protagonist, on the main curiosity posed by the story. Same principle (but less serious) at the very end of Lost in Translation. Bob (Bill Murray) finds Charlotte (Scarlett Johansson). She whispers something in his ear but the viewer is left out, not allowed to hear. In these two examples, we are dealing with uncertainties that are too heavy and too deliberate.

It's therefore a matter of balance. Ending a story on a promise can be quite elegant. At the end of City Lights, Chaplin doesn't tell us what will become of the tramp and the flower girl. Will they live together? Unlikely, given the characterization of Charlie. At the same time, it's hard to imagine the flower girl stopping there after what the protagonist has done for her. Similarly, at the end of Some Like It Hot, we don't know if Jerry (Jack Lemmon) will settle down with Osgood (Joe Brown). At the end of Série noire, Franck (Patrick Dewaere) tells Mona (Marie Trintignant) that everything is settled when it's exactly the opposite. He has lost everything. The story is resolved, thanks to the authors, and at the same time, the ending is open. Is Franck simply lying to Mona or is he lying to himself? Has he lost his mind? How will he and Mona survive? Franck's troubles are far from over. Has Bruno (Vittorio Gassman) learned a lesson at the end of The Easy Life? He seems shaken by what just happened but will he be any less of a boor?

These four examples are very enlightening. They operate on the same principle. First, what was set up is resolved. Second, life goes on for the characters. Third, it is primarily the viewer who has learned a lesson. Fourth, the resolution is so powerful, shocking, or moving that it was surely wise to end on it and close the curtain at that moment.

P. HAVE FUN AND... ENTERTAIN US

Inventing a story is a creative act and the place of creativity in humans is a state of the self that transactional analysts call the Free Child. It is also with the Free Child that we engage in three essential activities: playing, laughing, and making love. This shows how precious this part of ourselves is and deserves to be developed. Despite this, there is a downside to this state of the self that is the Free Child. In everyday life, there are many circumstances where it is not good to be in your Free Child. When someone asks you the time, there is often better to do than to answer: "The time it was yesterday at the same time, ha, ha, ha!" When skiing down a crowded slope at full speed, you risk not having fun for long, and neither will others. In other words, there are times to have fun and there are times to be responsible. It's a bit the same when writing. An author who only pleases themselves risks being the only one having fun in the end.

This for two reasons. First, because writing does not only bring pleasure, it is also difficult and even sometimes a suffering. Then because you have to consider the other. This last point is not bothersome...
so annoying just because you have to follow rules. Even though, for the Rebel Children that artists are, it's already unbearable. It's especially annoying because the rules are difficult to apply.

Sometimes you can please yourself and others. And sometimes the two are incompatible. In short, writing involves constraints. It's so true that some authors like Dorothy Parker have gone so far as to say: "I hate writing, I love having written."

"You shouldn't turn the job of a humorist into an idyllic paradise," said René Goscinny. "There are times when it's horribly hard." Pleasure is therefore not always a criterion by which you can tell if you're on the right track. That said, if writing is only suffering and depression, that's also a bad sign. So, savor the good moments and better yet: create them.

How to have fun and entertain others

In the activity of writing, there is a source of pleasure that satisfies both the author and the audience. I'm talking about rewriting. Especially when it gives the justified impression that you're making progress on your project. Personally, I find rewriting as enjoyable as writing. With each new draft, I not only feel that my work is improving but that I'm finally holding onto something. Until the next rewrite.

For the rest, I don't believe that having fun consists of adding more eggs to your basket. Flashbacks, subplots, secondary characters. Nor in putting the end at the beginning. Unless, of course, it makes sense. In other words, anything that involves gratuitous amusement risks leaving the audience cold.

Having fun mainly involves making the most of the few eggs you have and being inventive. Every time you find an idea that excites you and makes you think: "This will delight the audience, we can share this pleasure," you're on the right track. It could be a gag, a surprise, a payoff, an exploitation of dramatic irony, a simple dialogue. Often, it must be out of sync with what is generally expected.

At the beginning of Super témoin, a police inspector comes to get Marino (Ugo Tognazzi) to take him away. Marino is sleeping. The inspector shakes him. Half-awake, Marino thinks he's dealing with a girlfriend. He mumbles to the inspector to undress and lie down next to him. And the inspector responds most seriously: "I can't. I'm on duty." I can clearly see the screenwriters rejoicing when they found this dialogue.

At the beginning of Chacun cherche son chat, Chloé (Garance Clavel) entrusts her cat to a neighbor (Renée Le Calm) and leaves Paris to go on vacation by the sea. But it's not Chloé's vacation that interests Klapisch, it's what happens when she returns. So, he shows Chloé heading to the Gare de Lyon, then a very short shot of Chloé taking a bath in the Mediterranean, then Chloé moving away from the Gare de Lyon. Chloé's vacation lasts two seconds in the film! This little shot is a delightful wink, an original ellipsis, almost a gag. Cédric Klapisch told me he conceived it during writing but only fully enjoyed it during editing.

These two examples are very punctual, almost anecdotal. Sometimes happiness comes from a masterful payoff. In general, at those moments, I feel what I call a "screenwriter's emotion." And I'm convinced that the authors also felt an emotion when they found this payoff.

What to do to have fun and be more creative? Transactional analysts would answer: cultivate your Free Child. Writing workshops often provide another answer to this question. I have often noticed, indeed, that being able to consciously name the mechanisms of the narrative allows for better exploitation and thus stimulates creativity. This incidentally confirms that awareness of the rules does not hinder the spontaneity of creation.

Don't do the same thing twice

Be careful not to repeat yourself. This will force you to find even better ideas, to be more inventive. If, for example, your protagonist is a space sheriff who must get rid of three hitmen one after the other, find a different way for each bandit. Don't do what the author of Outland does, using the same method twice to neutralize a killer. In Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl, secondary characters go to an island to try to break a curse. In vain. I can understand their motivations, but the stakes are low because they are not protagonists. When, thirty minutes later, the action brings us back to the same island to perform the same ritual, I feel like I'm going in circles.

CHERISH COMEDY

We have already talked about comedy at the foundational stage and, especially, at the scene-by-scene stage. In The Dramaturgy, I strive to demonstrate that comedy is a noble, fair, useful, and difficult treatment (see also pages 191-192). And I advocate for authors to write not pure comedies but works that mix both serious and humorous treatments.

This does not mean that there are only comedies to write. I really like Othello, Citizen Kane, and A Bright Sky, which are not exactly wildly funny. If you don't feel like writing a comedy, of course, don't do it. But you can at least adopt two attitudes: 1 - respect comedy, rather than associating yourself with those decision-makers, intellectuals, or religious people who disdain it, 2 - ask yourself if there aren't two or three moments in your project that could allow for a bit of comedy, to add relief to the narrative and make it closer to the complexity of life.

It's not just some intellectuals, all the dictators and fundamentalists on the planet who are afraid of humor. I've seen in my workshops authors full of goodwill who were uncomfortable with comedy. I've seen these authors laugh heartily at a comic suggestion made to them only to immediately exclaim: "Oh no, I can't do that! It goes too far." For a receiver, comedy often gives an impression of lightness, whereas for an author, it can rightly give the impression of being more cruel than serious treatment.

Good dispositions

One can discuss comedy, analyze a gag, explain that comedy stages human limitations, requires detachment, and works on the gap. But can one learn to be funny? I believe so, in part. In truth, it's exactly like everything else. Of course, you need initial aptitudes but also work and training. The following few tips logically stem from the theoretical reflections proposed in The Dramaturgy, particularly in its chapter 9.

1. First, dive in. You appreciate comedy as a spectator, you are convinced of its nobility, but you don't dare to try it. You tell yourself that there are clearly people who have a gift for humor and others who don't. You're not wrong. But there are as many senses of humor as there are individuals. Just because you don't have the genius of Molière or Chaplin, the elegance of Lubitsch, or the humanity of Italian comedy screenwriters doesn't mean you have no sense of humor. A sense of humor can be explored, sought, cultivated. And then it's by writing that one becomes a blacksmith.

I will remember all my life this writing workshop where I asked participants to write a scene of dramatic irony. A screenwriter over fifty came up with a very funny scene that amused everyone. We were in tears. So was she. But not for the same reasons. She confessed to us that it was the first time in her life that she did comedy, that she made others laugh through writing. She found it magical.

2. Be the first to laugh at what you write. Of course, this is not a sufficient condition - you must even be cautious - but it is a necessary condition.

3. Don't confuse cheerful and comic. It's not by staging characters who have fun or party that you create comedy. Lightness, perhaps, but not comedy. In other words, comedy gives an impression of lightness, but it is neither lightness nor gaiety that produces comedy. On the contrary, to be funny, you have to load the boat.

4. Don't confuse zany and comic. Some authors imagine that by inventing quirky situations, characters, or accessories, they will make people laugh. I think it's more of an evasion. Since they can't be both accurate and funny, they go into delusions. At best, it becomes intellectual humor - the kind that just makes the brain smile. At worst, it's silly. In any case, it's far from character comedy and situational comedy.

5. Cultivate your Free Child. By playing, laughing, making love, entering your emotions. And by letting out a loud fart in the direction of all the gloomy people.

Take one of the peaks of nonsense, Monty Python and the Holy Grail, and ask around what the best gags of the film are. I bet that the bad faith of the Black Knight, the coconuts imitating the horses' steps, the deciphering of the graffiti ("The Grail is in the castle of aaaaaarrgh..."), the difficulties of the King of the Swamp (Michael Palin) to make himself understood by his guards, the stupidity of Sir Bedevere (Terry Jones) when he applies the Trojan horse principle will be mentioned more often than the rabbit that slaughters three knights or the police that burst into the Middle Ages. Because these gags (the first ones mentioned) have a human base, they are not totally gratuitous.

BE PATIENT AND TENACIOUS

"Hasten slowly and, without losing courage, twenty times on the loom put your work. Polish it ceaselessly and repolish it; sometimes add, and often erase." The precious advice of Nicolas Boileau applies not only to the dialogue continuity, which often receives the most care. Authors spend a lot of time polishing their dialogues because it's the visible part of the iceberg (including in theater) and because it's the easiest to do. Besides dialogues, they could work on the sets, sounds, colors, costumes, and accessories, giving them more meaning. But, above all, the initial intention, the pitch, the foundations, the milestones, the scene-by-scene, and the treatment should also be put on the loom twenty times and undergo multiple drafts before moving on to the next stage.

A good work of fiction is a rich and complex product, almost impossible to master in one go. It requires a lot of rigor and maturation. It's a long-term job. Anyone can fill a hundred pages of dialogue in three months. With very few exceptions, the result is neither done nor to be done. I think there are no bad stories, only unfinished stories. This aligns with the idea that the perfect story is indeed in the author's unconscious but that they often struggle to fully bring it to life. The misfortune of so many stories is that they are put into production too early. They are not sufficiently refined.

In his memoirs, Frank Capra writes: "Do the scenes in a film come out of a tap like running water? No. They are created. By a talent. Yes, an extraordinary talent. But they are also the result of writing and rewriting, effort and discouragement; they are the fruit of the endurance and energy of a decathlon champion. The script of Mr. Smith Goes to Washington was worthy of a gold medal for Sidney Buchman." Authors are marathoners, not sprinters.

The anxiety of the blank page...

What to do if you're gripped by the famous anxiety of the blank page? A first reflex is to leave the place where you usually write. Your desk should remain associated with the pleasure of writing. Only sit there when you're sure to write. Then, make sure it's indeed a psychological block. Writing sometimes means... not writing. A story needs maturation. I'll come back to this later. Then, if it is indeed a block, accept it. The anxiety of the blank page is normal, it happens to everyone. Writing provides moments of joy but also moments of doubt and discomfort. We've talked about this earlier. That's why you should write, even if you think it's bad.

The anxiety of the blank page is sometimes due to the author projecting themselves onto step x + 1 when step x is not finished. Thus, in my workshops, I regularly encounter authors who are afraid to start, either because they are intimidated by the magnitude of the task or because they are perfectionists. In the first case, they don't understand that the best way to climb Everest is not to focus on the summit but to start from the bottom and put one foot in front of the other. In the second case, they can't stand that the first version of the first word of the first scene is imperfect. I explain to them that there's a good chance they'll miss the first draft but that the rewrite will be brilliant. Keep in mind that the very first drafts of North by Northwest and Some Like It Hot were missed. And that rewriting is much less blocking than writing.

Another trick is to switch to another project, to write something else. Another trick is to stop writing while you still have material in your head. This way, when you get back to it later, you'll have something to start with without even thinking. Another trick is to make a list of what cannot happen in your story. By contrast, you might find what will work for your project.

You can also try altered states of consciousness. There are a thousand and one ways to reach such states. In the less dangerous genre than alcohol or cannabis and less polluting than driving, there are: walking, jogging, DIY, gardening, yoga, music, sophrology, meditation, rebirthing, self-hypnosis, or holotropic breathing. You can also meditate on a koan.

Finally, having your work read (or reading it to others) is a good way to overcome the anxiety of the blank page. Because reading reports are often mines of stimulating rewrites. I'll come back to this later.

And if none of this works, you can decide not to write anything at all for a long enough period of time. If you manage to play the game, you will have at least avoided the guilt of blocking. And if you can't help but find ideas and write a few lines, well... the page will no longer be blank.

You may find yourself not formally blocked but fundamentally blocked. You know that a certain element doesn't work, but you can't find anything better. No matter how much you write and write, find a thousand ideas, nothing works. Here are some tricks.

1. Spend time understanding what doesn't work and in which direction you should look. You know the proverb: a problem well stated is half solved. Is it a characterization problem? And if so, is it a coherence problem or rather a lack of characterization? Is it an exploitation problem? Is it a clarity problem? In short, be as specific as possible about what is wrong.

Personally, I find it very useful to write my questions in black and white. "How can So-and-so discover this or that?" "What is So-and-so's ghost?" "Does So-and-so's transformation occur before or after they reach their goal?" As if writing down precise questions on paper allowed me to free my mind and open the way to solutions. Moreover, often, when I write the questions, several possible answers follow - which I also write down - and (what seems to me) the right answer soon emerges.

2. Go to the theater or cinema, travel through the repertoire. Read or watch the best works of Shakespeare, Molière, Labiche, Ibsen, Chekhov, Shaw, Chaplin, Brecht, Lubitsch, Hitchcock, Pagnol, Wilder, Age and Scarpelli, Goscinny, Charlier, Veber, Taniguchi. They are all brilliant craftsmen and formidable teachers of dramaturgy. Our peers often help us bounce back and find solutions. You can also find solutions in works that touch you personally, even if they are not well constructed.

3. In the same spirit, you can read or reread a good treatise on dramaturgy. Yes, yes! it sometimes gives ideas.

4. Enter an altered state of consciousness. I mentioned it earlier. It's a technique that can make you want to write but can also help you find solutions.

... and procrastination

A difficulty close to that of the blank page is putting off advancing your project until tomorrow. This is particularly noticeable when writing a project without a contract, therefore without deadlines. I have a very effective trick to counter procrastination, which is to create an artificial deadline. I call a reader friend and ask when they can read my project. Often, they give me a date corresponding to their current schedule, for example, an upcoming trip or a particular weekend. I then immediately find the energy to dive into writing to be ready on time.

At the same time...

Putting twenty times on the loom also means giving yourself time, a lot of time. Of course, it's impossible to give a number, but including maturation, writing a dramatic work should take a year and a half, sometimes two or three years. It's a truth too often ignored, even by authors. Challenges like screenplay marathons, where participants are asked to write a screenplay in three days - as if dramaturgy were a fairground act - maintain this idea that improvisation and spontaneous writing can yield results in dramaturgy. There is nothing more dangerous. Dramaturgy is neither free jazz nor lyrical abstraction. Of all the arts, it is perhaps the one that requires the most time and rigor. How else to explain that painters and musicians produce hundreds, often thousands of works in their lifetime, while playwrights create only a few dozen? At the end of his life, Goethe was still rewriting passages of his Faust, started sixty years earlier. Between 1979 and 1998, Peter Shaffer rewrote the final confrontation between Mozart and Salieri six times for Amadeus. Consider also Chaplin, who shot and reshot a crucial scene of City Lights for months, thus rewriting the script on set.

Decision-makers, too, should be aware of this need for time and show more patience, demand, and generosity towards authors. Like Darryl Zanuck, whose dialogue with Ernst Lubitsch (at the time of Heaven Can Wait) Billy Wilder reports: "How's the work going, Ernst?" "Frankly, slowly but well," "I'm glad. The only thing I would have preferred to hear you say is: 'Very slowly but very well.'"

Finally, note that Boileau not only suggests multiple rewrites. He also invites us not to be discouraged. He's right. An author, even a seasoned one, who starts a personal story is always very enthusiastic, and then soon, the excitement of the start fades and gives way to discouragement, if not self-flagellation. On this subject, Frantisek Daniel had a little trick. When you have a film idea, write down your excitement on a piece of paper. You boast about it, you write why it's going to be a masterpiece. Then you put the paper away in a corner. And when you're discouraged, you take it out. I think perseverance is the most important quality to possess in this profession, far ahead of connections, luck, or even... competence. Perseverance is nourished by patience, courage, and self-confidence. At the beginning of Misery, Paul Sheldon (James Caan) puts the final touches on a novel. Then he pours himself a good glass of champagne and savors the moment. His novel is not yet published, but mentally, Paul has already put himself on the New York Times bestseller list.

Chekhov, who regularly read and corrected his colleagues' plays - Chekhov, a pioneer of script doctoring! - wrote to Gorky in 1901, lines that address all authors: "Please, finish your play. You feel that it doesn't take the desired turn, but don't listen to your feelings, they are misleading. It's normal not to like a play while writing it. It's only after that you end up appreciating it."

The old remains

In polishing and repolishing, you must be careful of what could be called "old remains." From one draft to another, you will make changes. But when you modify an element, you rarely take the time to check that everything else is still coherent with what has been modified and respects the principle of necessity. Especially since you get used to the presence of certain scenes or characters. And one day, sometimes a few drafts later, you wonder what purpose a certain element serves and realize you're dealing with an old remain.

This is not an anecdotal issue because between rewrites and cuts, an author can write three or four times more than what will end up in the finished work. It's a bit like the rushes of a shoot: there is always more material than in the final product. Because writing is also searching. You write a lot, you keep little. Richard
Curtis [23] calculated that "for each day worked on Notting Hill, twelve seconds of writing remained," at a rate of seven hours per day. That's why there are often many differences between the first and last draft. Unless the latter is full of old remnants.

Writing is rewriting — Once you have a first draft, go back and cut the beginning of the scenes. It's difficult to write spontaneously by starting a scene in the thick of things. We often need to start it gently. Knock! Knock! "Hey, hello! Come in.", "Am I disturbing you?", "No, no. Would you like something?", "Yes, a cognac. I really need it", "What's going on?", "Oh...", "No, tell me!", "... Martine left with the kids", "What?!" When reworking the first draft, start the scene with "What?!" and remove everything that precedes it. This is what Roddy Doyle does in the inciting incident of The Snapper. He begins with Dessie (Colm Meaney) saying to his daughter (Tina Kellegher): "You're what?!", "You heard me", "Good God, you're pregnant!?" This is what Horace calls "In medias res" in his Art of Poetry [43], "in the middle of things."

Another rewriting technique: put yourself in the shoes of Columbo (Peter Falk in Columbo) and reread the text with a suspicious and ruthless eye. One of the famous inspector's specialties is to put himself in the place of others (especially suspects) and spot what seems to be psychological inconsistencies. "If I had just found my partner dead, I would never think of opening my mail" (episode 1-1). "How come he didn't close the business for a few days, out of respect for his deceased brother?" (episode 3-2). "Who could have made that call, heard the victim die on the other end of the line, and not reported it to the police?" (episode 7-4). Columbo is like a normal reader/spectator who balks at anything that isn't smooth.

Once the dialogue continuity exists, don't hesitate to return to a higher scale, the scene-by-scene for example, before returning to the dialogue which represents the finest scale of the work. Dialogue continuity often reveals structural or characterization problems that can only be resolved by working on the foundations or the scene-by-scene. Back and forth between the different levels are sometimes necessary.

Reworking also involves having your different drafts read by various people or telling the story to others when the opportunity arises. It's an excellent exercise. Marcel Pagnol reports that he managed to solve his structural problems on César by telling his script to an old dying lady, too dying to wait for the film to be finished. This brings us to the next precept ("Make it read").

An incredibly fruitful trick

One day, a producer hires me to help write a subject close to his heart. I comply and provide a script. The producer reads it and tells me: "The structure is perfect but the dialogues need to be revised." He decides to entrust the task to someone else. Before handing the script to the dialogist, I review the text and add more than a hundred and fifty notes to explain to the dialogist the interest of each scene, each moment, each dialogue. I tell him why such an element is important, I explain what the characters feel. And, by doing this, I realize that some scenes don't work, that some emotional moments are missing, that some elements are unjustifiable, which leads me to correct the script.

Imagine that you are addressing a co-writer, a producer, an actor, a director. Explain to him the interest of each little moment of the text, why such a character does this or that.

This technique is productive in more than one way. First, it forces you to put yourself in the place of each character to justify their slightest actions. Then, it forces you to make each scene, each moment, each dialogue useful and necessary. And then it will push you to know all the backstage of your story and to weave the story of each of your characters, which will prove invaluable for the actors who will take on the roles.

S. MAKE IT READ

At first glance, this does not fall under the activity of an author and yet it is a crucial precept. Make your stories read, tell them, get as much feedback as possible. On all readable stages: the pitch, the foundations, the synopsis, the treatment or the dialogue continuity (but not the scene-by-scene, too synthetic). This activity is so important that I devote the next chapter to it.

T. LET IT REST

This book would be incomplete if it did not mention a common co-author to all storytellers: time. Not the amount of time necessary for the creation of a story that we talked about earlier. I mean here the time that passes. Or the time spent doing something else. It's a formidable ally. In the short term when, instead of struggling with the blank page, you let go and let the right hemisphere do the work. And in the long term. Because a story matures without being touched, or rather it is we who, by gaining perspective, mature in relation to it. Thus, an author can very well write several works at once, move from one to the other, forget one while working on another. Or even have other occupations. It is a specificity and an advantage of our profession.

13. MAKE IT READ

"You have thought about it for so long, written it so many times, in your head or on paper, that you start to be groggy, stupid, dry."
(William Goldman [34])
"I finished my drama, I would have liked to have it read to you."
(Maxime Gorki to Anton Chekhov [36])
"Every effort deserves a reward."
(a well-known but little-applied proverb)

All authors lack perspective on their work. One could broaden: all human beings lack perspective on themselves. It's related but well, let's stay in the realm of writing. Even if you write with others, there comes a time when you no longer have any freshness on your project, when you no longer see clearly. There is a simple remedy for this dangerous lack: get an outside perspective. I already mentioned it in the previous chapter but I will never recommend it enough: make your work read. I know it is scary. Many authors do not want their beautiful edifice to be questioned. Or that it be formatted. Or that their dear thought be damaged. Most of the time, these are irrational fears because quality script doctoring is benevolent and has only one goal: to help the author better translate their thought. In other words, to help the author be the artist through effective craftsmanship. But it must be recognized that, even when feedback is benevolent and professional, it is often a painful experience for authors. It is also a delicate practice because it is not easy to find a competent reader. And yet, it is in-dis-pen-sa-ble.

N.B. This chapter is also addressed to producers who do development, that is to say, who initiate or follow the writing of a story. Because they too end up lacking perspective on a text they have read, reread, and re-read.

To whom should you make it read?

The first difficulty is finding a competent reader, and even better a competent script doctor. Reading a dramatic text requires skills that not everyone has. On this subject, I refer you to Evaluate a Script [50] which, despite its title, may interest theater or even novel readers.

Do not make a decision-maker (producer, actor, etc.) read to get an opinion on the text. Of course, there is a chance that your project will one day be read by several decision-makers. I regret to say that you should expect nothing from them if you are looking for help to rewrite and make progress on your craft. For a simple (and legitimate) reason: they do not read with this goal. They read to know if your project can fit into their editorial program, their mood of the moment, their career plan, their desire for a role, their crushes, etc. In short, they have other motivations than a pure script doctor.

And, unfortunately, in addition, they very rarely have script doctor skills. In other words, whether or not they want your project, they will not be able to help you rewrite it. To be convinced, just present a project to the Advance on Receipts and, when the result of what is nothing more than a lottery is negative, request the reading reports. You will get everything and its opposite.

You need to make it read by people who agree to play the role of script doctors and who have no momentary power of life or death over your project. If, in addition, you want them to be competent - it's better - you can start now to build a network of privileged readers. Because it takes years. In literature, they are often called "beta-readers." Some internet collectives (like CoCyclics or Wattpad) offer this service to their members. But there too, some are more pointed than others.

The right profile

Some think it is better to avoid making it read by someone who knows and appreciates you. In truth, you should mainly avoid inauthentic readers. If you think the reader will not be neutral, that they will be waiting for you around the corner - whether for good or bad -, find another one.

Woody Allen and Douglas McGrath demonstrated in Bullets Over Broadway that a gangster (Chazz Palminteri) could be an excellent script doctor. Granted, the film is fiction, but what it says is true. The natural qualities of a good script doctor are not necessarily found among professionals in the microcosm.

In short, I think there is no good profile. You have to test the readers.

MAKE IT READ

What salary?

A beta-reader or a script doctor must be compensated. Not necessarily in hard cash. The evaluation can be done in the context of an exchange. Someone reads your project, you read theirs. If your beta-reader is a friend or a family member, the compensation will be in esteem, loyalty, love, curiosity, etc. But, for me, it is clear that the beta-reader must find their account in one way or another. Otherwise, they will do it reluctantly, therefore poorly. If you set out to find a competent professional script doctor, plan to leave part of your savings. Do not insult them by asking for a free reading.

A rewriting workshop

Another avenue can be very fruitful: the rewriting workshop, like Grand Nord or Plume & Pellicule (from the Dreamago association). Receiving several reading reports over a few days allows for complementary feedback and often also to spot trends. I return to the interest of writing or rewriting workshops at the beginning of the next chapter.

You are the measure

It is not easy to receive a reading report. Except, of course, if it is only positive. But this is very rarely the case. It is not easy because it is always a questioning, I mentioned it above. But it is also difficult because the feedback is not 100% accurate. Contrary to what some claim, the reader is not always right on the whole line. You have to sort the wheat from the chaff. Of course, the risk is to reject what bothers you, because it is too painful to admit, while it would be useful for your project. Sorting is a form of choice. There are also signs that do not deceive. If you clearly feel which criticism is relevant, which suggestion will be beneficial, it means you are beginning to master the coherence of your project. What to do then?

First, listen to your reader without justifying or defending yourself. Then, make a clear distinction between your reader's feelings (the symptom), their analysis (the diagnosis), and the solutions (the prescription) they may propose. If they are too much into prescription, refocus them, ask them to primarily convey what they felt. Possibly, by asking them specific questions. Did you understand this? What do you feel at this moment? Did you turn the pages? Etc. Then, take the time to digest, to decant. Do not rush to rewrite. Let your unconscious do the sorting. Then, try to distinguish between subjective and objective feedback. In general, subjective feedback is related to your reader's tastes and colors. Keep only what resonates with you, what seems right for your project. Objective feedback, on the other hand, concerns the craftsmanship of the project, therefore the universal and timeless tools of storytelling. It is, of course, the objective feedback that will be most useful to you. They are the ones that will help you better convey your thought. If, in addition, they are brought with benevolence, you will have material to keep reworking your piece.

14. SCALES

"At that time, in 1934, the companies had a very large number of screenwriters under contract. Every Thursday, we had to submit eleven pages of script. We worked on two, three, four films at the same time. We were made to move from one film to another, we were made to rewrite the scripts of others."
(Billy Wilder [94])

If you are a beginner, before embarking on writing a long work, I recommend practicing on scenes or short stories. This can be solo or in a group, within a workshop.

The stimulation of the workshop

Submitting your work very regularly to colleagues within a workshop is an extremely stimulating way to master the tools of storytelling. Basically, the principle is as follows - of course, it can be adapted. Half a dozen authors decide to meet for a few hours, once a week. On this occasion, each submits to the others the fruit of their work. This can consist of reading a scene or discussing a character, the choice of climax, the nature of internal obstacles, etc. The goal of the game being, either to do scales (cf. suggestions below), or to develop, each, a personal project. I indeed discourage collective writing. First, because you learn less by writing with others. Then because a workshop greatly helps the author to work. It is already, in itself, a semi-collective writing.

This system is very fruitful for several reasons. First, an author always lacks perspective on what they write. An outside eye often allows not to get lost, to focus their energy on the real questions. Then, it allows having a first audience. You can immediately know if an idea works, if a scene is funny, if a development is clear. When four or five people of different sex, age, culture, and religion make the same remark, the author knows right away that it is not a matter of taste, it is their work that needs to be reviewed. That is why this kind of workshop does not require the presence of a teacher. Certainly, a good facilitator will not just point out what does not work, they will say what needs to be done to make it work. But six motivated authors, who have a common language, can manage on their own. Reading a scene in front of an audience is also excellent training for any author. Because it forces them to act a little and to feel each role. And then, of course, a workshop is a formidable melting pot. It produces a lot of ideas. As long as its members make the effort to respect each other's thoughts and universe and stick to the craftsmanship aspect of writing, it can yield excellent results.

Respect for others and benevolence are essential conditions for the proper functioning of a workshop. On the right attitude to adopt within a writing workshop, I refer you to Evaluate a Script [50]. The rules proposed there are addressed to decision-makers and script doctors, whether they are professional script doctors or author-script doctors within a workshop.

Examples of scales

A good trick to start this type of workshop is to do exercises. Once a week, each author comes to read a scene written from precise dramatic constraints, and decided by mutual agreement the previous week. This allows workshop members to acquire a common language. The following list gives ideas for constraints. Of course, it is not exhaustive. You are free to invent others.

The first type of exercise consists of writing a scene containing:
- conflict. It's the ABC. It allows realizing how useful conflict is. The constraint can be made more difficult by requiring that the conflict not be too externalized, too obvious. Avoid, for example, two people arguing;
- a protagonist-objective-obstacles trio. To play the game, you must clearly choose a protagonist, their objective, and the nature of their obstacles before writing a single word;
- urgency;
- a characterization trait. Here too, to make the most of the exercise, it is necessary to play the game. That is to say, you start by deciding on the characterization trait you want to show and only then do you look for the means to show it;
- a crescendo, an evolution, and a climax. Not easy, especially to build the crescendo;
- preparation. With preparation and payoff in the same scene. The payoff can be a gesture or a dialogue;
- milking;
- dramatic irony. Of course, the most interesting is to write an exploitation scene, possibly a resolution. The installation of dramatic irony is not necessary. If it took place before the beginning of the scene, a short warning to the audience is enough;
- a comic shift;
- exposition. Playing the game of this exercise consists of first deciding on the content of the exposition. There must be a good amount, a story for example. Only then do you look for the best way to convey this exposition. Avoid the interrogation during which an individual recites their CV or tells their life story;
- a significant piece of activity;
- no dialogue. And yet, the scene must be clear and tell a story (beginning, middle, end). One of the exercises required by the Hamburg Film School from its students is to make a short film of five minutes maximum, pairing screenwriter and director, presenting a central conflict and containing no dialogue. The instruction is superb and has given rise to excellent films;
- allusive, ironic, or stupid dialogues.

All these exercises allow becoming familiar with dramatic mechanisms. To train in the syntactic work from one scene to another, you can tackle designing the foundations of a short story (cf. below). This allows working on the structure (cross arcs, dramatic knots, sequences, preparation).

The total

Another exercise consists of writing a combination of most of the aforementioned constraints. That is to say, a scene containing the protagonist-objective-obstacles trio, the cross arcs, a climax, conflict, emotion, suspense, a crescendo, evolution, comedy elements, beautiful characterization, unity of action, payoffs, milking, dramatic irony, surprise, at least one beautiful piece of activity, and good dialogues. It's possible even if it's difficult. You can possibly take up one of the scenes written for a previous exercise and refine it. I call this type of scene a "cocale..."

One might wonder if there are any in the repertoire. After all, a scene does not need to be total to exist, be beautiful, and serve the action. Without searching for long, I found two - including one in a French film!

It's the famous slap scene from Série noire, which happens to be the film's climax. (N.B. Warning, the following reveals important elements of the film.) Franck Poupard (Patrick Dewaere) has murdered two people to steal a stash. His boss, Staplin (Bernard Blier), suspects something. Franck has just made a third victim, his wife (Myriam Boyer), when dring! Staplin arrives at Franck's home. The latter lets him in, a bit stunned. Staplin sits in Franck's devastated living room: "It's really cozy here, the real Louis XV living room." Then Staplin gets down to business: "I want everything, Franck. Everything you've collected, thanks to two murders." We then enter the second act. Franck's objective is clear: keep the stolen money. Will Franck get away with it? Suspense... The obstacles follow one another. Franck first tries to make Staplin believe there is no money, that it's a "terrible love story." "Love of money!" replies Staplin who is not fooled. Franck then claims there is very little money, that it's hidden in a wasteland. He proposes to Staplin to go get it. We know Franck is lying (dramatic irony): the money is in a suitcase right next to the two men. Staplin then warns Franck: he left a letter with a friend. If Staplin disappears, the friend will give the letter to the police. Franck is stuck. He gets up, approaches Staplin, and suddenly delivers a violent punch to the stomach. Staplin takes it: "Hit... Hit if it makes you happy. To each their own. But don't forget the letter... Where's the money?" Franck shows him the suitcase.

Staplin takes everything. Franck changes his objective, he asks Staplin to leave him some money, to get by. Staplin refuses. Franck slaps him. Staplin continues to refuse and then launches this famous dialogue: "It's not that I'm bored but my cheeks are burning." And he leaves, leaving Franck defeated (third act).

The second total is extracted from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. We are in the middle of the film. The nine least affected patients of the ward are gathered in a therapy group led by Miss Ratched (Louise Fletcher). They are discussing Billy's case (Brad Dourif) and McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) is bored stiff. Billy has trouble expressing himself. Suddenly, Cheswick (Sydney Lassick) intervenes: "What if we talked about something else?" Miss Ratched reminds them that they are discussing
therapy. Cheswick expresses the desire to watch the baseball game McMurphy had mentioned earlier. Cheswick has never seen baseball; it might be good therapy. McMurphy then takes over to request a new vote on schedule changes. A majority of yes votes would allow him to watch his game. At this point in the scene, McMurphy's objective is announced—in fact, it's the same objective as the sequence this scene is part of. So we enter the second act. Will McMurphy manage to watch his baseball game? Suspense... Miss Ratched agrees to the principle of a new vote. One by one, the nine group members raise their hands. McMurphy triumphs. But Miss Ratched presents an obstacle: "There are eighteen of you in this ward. You need a majority to change the rule." McMurphy tries to get one more vote from the other patients in the ward. In vain. Miss Ratched declares the meeting over. McMurphy asks for one more minute and addresses Chief (Will Sampson), who doesn't seem to understand what's being asked of him. Faced with his silence, McMurphy gives up. Dramatic turn, Chief slowly raises his hand. McMurphy notices, bursts with joy, and asks Miss Ratched to turn on the television. At the same moment, a nurse leads the other eight into the washroom. A final discussion ensues between Miss Ratched and McMurphy—it's the climax of the scene. The head nurse reminds him that the vote and meeting were closed. McMurphy gets angry, demands the television be turned on but gets nothing. He abandons his goal and sits down, sullen, in front of the turned-off television. End of the second act. He broods. Suddenly (third act twist), his face lights up. McMurphy starts to comment on a baseball game as if he were watching one on the screen. The other asylum inmates stop their activities and come to see what's happening. Initially stunned to see their comrade getting excited in front of a blank screen, they are soon caught up in his enthusiasm. And soon, all the patients are shouting in front of the turned-off TV, as if they were really watching a baseball game.

This piece of activity, one of the most beautiful in the repertoire, is all at once: it's a masterful characterization trait; it's milking; it's funny; it's a big dramatic turn; it's finally the payoff of everything that preceded, especially the intense frustration experienced by McMurphy and shared by the viewer. This piece of activity is almost complete in itself.

Of course, the total is not an end in itself for a dramatic author. You can write a beautiful work without a single total. But if you conceive one, you have the right to be delighted. First, because it's rare and difficult. Then, because it's always an extremely effective scene, necessarily effective. And even more than that: totals are often classics of the repertoire. Think of the balcony scene in Cyrano de Bergerac, the boxing match in City Lights, the forgiveness scene in The Baker's Wife. These are totals (or quasi-totals). And they are moving human adventures.

The second type of exercise involves taking an existing scene, in your own work or in the repertoire, and rewriting it:
- by simply improving it. Don't hesitate to touch "untouchable" works. There's always a scene that's a bit off;
- by taking another character from the scene as the protagonist (but without changing the nature of the conflict). André Cayatte, Maurice Aubergé, and Louis Sapin did this with an entire film: La vie conjugale, which tells the story of a couple (Marie-José Nat and Jacques Charrier). Two versions were released simultaneously in 1964: Françoise and Jean-Marc, each with one of the spouses as the protagonist. It's also somewhat the approach of Tom Stoppard in Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead, which evokes the tragedy of Hamlet through the point of view of two secondary characters. Or that of Laetitia Colombani who, in the same film (He Loves Me... He Loves Me Not), offers two narratives of the same story by changing the protagonist halfway through;
- by making it funny. The chosen scene must be serious, of course. This exercise is great for grasping the mechanics of comedy and the difference between the two treatments of the same subject;
- by keeping the beginning and changing the end. Several variants. You can leave the first act intact and change everything else, or keep what you can from the beginning to reverse the dramatic response, or completely deviate;
- by changing the characterization of the protagonist without changing their objective;
- by changing other elements (the place, the time, etc.);
- by diverting it, taking the opposite approach. For example, you take a meeting scene in a deserted alley at night, as seen a thousand times in film noir, and transpose it to a deserted and sunny countryside (cf. North by Northwest);
- by shortening it to the extreme, without losing its meaning;
- by replacing certain dialogues with activity, without changing the meaning.

If you try these transformation exercises, you might be surprised at how much they lead you towards comedy. But the exercise will be all the more beneficial if you don't fall into pure parody. It's nobler to mock life than to mock the work of others.

All these exercises are far from gratuitous. First, they are scales. Scales are as necessary for the dramatist as for the musician. That's why you shouldn't be afraid to "debase" your talent by doing commercial work. You learn a lot, for example, by writing one or two sitcom episodes. Then, remember that an author creates nothing, they recreate, even if unconsciously. Working on existing scenes is fundamentally the same as creating "original" scenes from "nothing."

... and remake Most of the great classics of the repertoire (Oedipus Rex, Don Juan, Faust, etc.) are remakes. Shakespeare, for example, did not invent his subjects. Most of his plays are inspired by Plutarch or Holinshed's abundant chronicles. Hamlet would be a remake of Thomas Kyd's Hamlet, itself inspired by Saxo Grammaticus's tales (not to mention the character of Electra, of which Hamlet is a male version). The same goes for Molière, who drew heavily from Plautus, Spanish theater, or commedia dell'arte. In Observations on Comedy and the Genius of Molière [69], Luigi Riccoboni notes that "you won't find in the entire comedy of The Miser four scenes invented by Molière." Citizen Kane resembles a film made eight years earlier: Thomas Garner (including the use of flashbacks). Hergé borrowed a lot from his predecessors, from novels, theater, and cinema. Some passages, sets, and props from Destination Moon are taken from the film Destination... Moon! In Waiting for Godot, this "revolutionary" work resembles a play by Lord Dunsany, The Glittering Gate, dating from 1909, in which two tramps wait at the gates of Paradise. Dunsany is of Irish origin (like Beckett), and his play was performed at the famous Abbey Theatre in Dublin, where it is very likely Beckett saw it. All this to say that it is not the ideas, themes, or subjects that matter but how they are exploited.

Ideas matter even less because everything has already been written. There is not an infinite number of possible objectives. What changes is the framework given to these objectives and the perspective each author will bring to an already treated subject. We return to Jean-Marie Roch's words [70]: "Everything has already been written but not yet by you."

The preceding examples also confirm that a remake is not necessarily worse than its original, as is often claimed. "Same story as So-and-So's film but without the freshness of the original" has become a big cliché of critical commentary. Many examples contradict this. Apart from The Miser (remake of The Pot of Gold) and Hamlet, we can cite the following remakes that are clearly better than their original work: Some Like It Hot, The Chorus, His Girl Friday, The Man Who Knew Too Much, The Thing, True Lies, A Star Is Born, Victor Victoria. Or even My Father the Hero. The remake of My Father the Hero exploits more and better the dramatic irony of the film: we know that André (Gérard Depardieu) is not the lover but the father of Véronique (Marie Gillain)/Nicole (Katherine Heigl), many people are unaware. Thus, in the remake, André experiences more conflict.

Personal, necessarily personal
These transformation and remake exercises can have extensions. Since there is no thematic constraint but only technical, each author writes totally personal texts. It sometimes happens that an exercise scene makes you want to go further, to explore a character, for example. This can lead to a short film or a play. Moreover, an isolated scene can, one day, fit perfectly into a long narrative that initially had no connection with it.

CONCLUSION

"I like plots. I'm like everyone else, I need that. If I still go to see American films, (...) it's because they still have a little bit of their good plots."
(Jean-Luc Godard [32])
If, thanks to this book, you have progressed on your story, whatever the medium it is intended for, thank you and congratulations.
Thank you for trusting me. I hope I have been helpful.
Thank you also for wanting to play Scheherazade. In France, we lack good storytellers. It's not in our cultural DNA, as it is for the Anglo-Saxons. It's unfortunate because storytelling is a powerful cultural vector—when will the political personnel of our country finally understand this? If I enjoy listening to American storytellers, I would also like other countries, other cultures, to tell me lots of good plots. When I discovered Departures, The King of Masks, The Lives of Others, I was doubly delighted. I had just had an excellent time and, moreover, I had just discovered cultural elements I didn't know. On the occasion of the Chinese translation of Dramaturgy [51], out of courtesy, I wanted to better understand Chinese cinema. I watched about fifty films. It was a fascinating cultural journey.
Congratulations, because you are comfortable with the principle of rules.
Congratulations, because you have the humility to think that you have not been touched by grace and that talent is worked on. Here too, on the European continent, there is progress to be made on this subject!
Congratulations, because completing a story is a difficult adventure. Exciting but difficult. Now remains the task of getting your project published, in one form or another. But even if your story will never be embodied, it already exists, it is a work in itself and it has made you grow. This is another interest in putting the stories we have in our heads in black and white. They help us better understand ourselves and move forward on the path of life.
You are no longer the same, if only as a storyteller. If your project never sees the light of day, it will at least have allowed you to better write the next one. In other words, while you have your story read, rewrite it, seek producers or publishers, you can start a new project. By returning, or not, to the beginning of this book...

GLOSSARY

As specified in the preface (page 11), the language of dramaturgy is not fully codified. Even if you will find (in parentheses) the English translation of certain notions, the definitions that follow correspond to the concepts developed in this work as well as in Dramaturgy [51] and do not necessarily coincide with those of other theorists or those of specialized dictionaries. Moreover, I remind you that remakes, happy endings, cliffhangers, milking, sequels, script doctoring, etc., were not invented by Hollywood. They have existed in theater for twenty-five centuries.
Italicized terms correspond to glossary entries. Bold numbers refer to major definitions and developments in the book. Bold underlined numbers refer to entire chapters.
Hook (cliffhanger): unresolved dramatic knot, placed at the end of a work or part of a work (weekly comic strip, serial episode, logistical act in theater) and intended to arouse in the viewer the desire to know the rest. The hook is a form of announcement. 72, 91, 282, 295
Act, or dramatic act: one of the three narrative parts of a dramatic unit (scene, sequence, episode, work). Defined in relation to the protagonist's objective. Not to be confused with the logistical act. Cf. also Second act, First act, Three-act structure, Third act. 15, 19, 263
Logistical act: important part of a play, responding to theoretical or practical considerations (change of time or setting, or renewal of candles). Notion of act. Hamlet and Cyrano de Bergerac are plays in 5 logistical acts but in 3 dramatic acts. 19, 98, 175, 176, 210, 294, 306
Action: set of attempts by a protagonist to achieve their objective (general or local). In general, action coincides with the second act, except when the unity of action is not respected or when action is relaunched by a dramatic turn at the beginning of the third act (enriched structure). 13, 73, 74, 84, 146, 162, 165, 170, 176, 209, 267, 279, 315, 318
Activity: meaningful gesture or set of meaningful gestures, including the actor's performance. The word "act" might be more appropriate but it would cause confusion with the dramatic act. As for the word "gesture," it is a bit restrictive in its common sense: it does not encompass the actor's performance. Silence can be activity. 17, 245, 246, 247, 249, 265, 267, 293, 305, 316, 341, 343
Adaptation: operation of transforming a narrative or various documents into a dialogued continuity. The word is used in two areas: the adaptation of a novel or a news item and that of a scene-to-scene. 221, 245, 289
Announcement (advertising, foreshadowing): preparation consisting of making information predictable, and pleasantly perceived as such, by the viewer. Necessarily induces a scene to come (cf. also Hook and Telephone). 16, 125, 129, 132, 159, 187, 211, 310, 311, 315, 317, 320
Antagonist: character possessing a single objective, whose action opposes that of the protagonist and constitutes, for the latter, the only source of external obstacle. The antagonist can operate at a local level.

Quite often, a scene contains an antagonist. The antagonist is not necessarily a villain. 62, 146, 170, 171, 185, 193, 213, 296, 302
Arena: universe (place + time) meaningful for the action. 15, 53, 54, 65, 67, 99, 166-169, 196, 198, 201, 246, 247, 250, 280, 302
Aristotelian: relating to Aristotle's theories on dramaturgy as stated in Poetics [02]. By extension, relating to any dramaturgy based on emotion, emotional identification, conflict, unity of action, causality, organic narrative. For the author of this book, life itself is Aristotelian. Cf. Epic. 17, 45
Dramatic need: unresolved issue of a character, often the future protagonist, presented in the First act and addressed in the second. Often linked to the notion of trajectory objective. 80, 91, 135, 157
Bible: set of documents presenting the recurring elements (premises, characters, weapons, themes, situations, etc.) of a series. If, for example, in each episode, a particular character must die (cf. Kenny in South Park), this must be mentioned in the bible. Same if, in each episode, the inspector (Columbo) must reappear at the end of a scene and say: "Ah, one more thing!...". The bible often includes one or two dialogued episodes and the pitch of already written episodes. 294
Snowball (effect): combination of a crescendo and an evolution. 235
Thought bubble: comic strip bubble whose tail consists of several decreasing circles. Conventionally, it conveys a character's thoughts. 43
Characterization: art of creating characters. The work of characterization does not consist solely in designing the characters but also in staging their personality and then exploiting it. 15, 27, 34, 65, 74, 75-78, 122, 133-142, 156-162, 164, 165, 167, 188, 190, 196, 198, 201, 205-211, 238, 247, 264, 272, 288, 305, 307, 311, 312, 314, 316, 319, 332, 340
Catharsis: purgation of emotions produced, according to Aristotle, by listening to melodies or emotional identification with a tragedy protagonist. 123, 203
Chorality: nature of a narrative that focuses on several protagonists (each with their objective) and intertwines the plots. 62, 68-69, 128, 158, 296
Punchline ending: dramatic knot placed at the end of a work and can designate, depending on the case, a climax, a hook, or a dramatic turn (or all three at once). More than a simple wink, the punchline is often significant. 281, 293
Cliffhanger: anglicism (from "cliff" and "hang") designating a hook or a work (serial type) containing hooks. Cf. this word.
Climax: anglicism designating the dramatic knot that concludes the second act of a dramatic unit (scene, sequence, episode, or entire work), resolves the problems posed by the action, and provides the dramatic response. In general, it is also the most intense dramatic knot of the unit, that is to say, the most conflicting and/or the most spectacular. Cf. also Punchline and Scene to come. 15, 19, 34, 43, 77, 89, 107, 109, 115, 143, 148, 166, 172-174, 185, 189, 194, 197, 199, 202, 222, 223, 246, 281, 288, 308, 314, 321, 341
Median climax (mid-act climax, first culmination): strong dramatic knot, located approximately in the middle of the second act and giving the action a new coloration without concluding it. Cf. also Falcon. 185-186, 194, 197, 200, 202, 221, 222, 236, 280

1. 1. In 2011, the Official Journal of the French Republic proposed translating "cliffhanger" as "suspense." I prefer "hook," which says the same thing and is less likely to be confused with suspense.

Trajectory climax: moment when the trajectory protagonist transforms. 122, 130, 192-193, 194, 197, 200, 203, 221
Comedy: mocking treatment of human limitations, intended to create laughter in the viewer and combining detachment and shift. The mockery can be demeaning, demanding, or compassionate. 35, 56, 57, 88, 102, 112, 165, 175, 191-192, 203, 206, 237, 238-240, 241, 254, 285, 310, 325-326, 344, 345
Situation comedy: comedy whose comic nature is created by structural work. 238, 241
Conflict: difficult life circumstance, always associated (in humans) with a feeling of frustration and often associated with a feeling of anxiety. This circumstance results from an opposition between an objective and an obstacle. It generates emotion for the one who lives it (the protagonist) as for the viewer. Powerful emotional identification factor. 8, 13, 14-15, 17, 27, 109, 123, 124, 127, 148, 152, 165, 205, 232, 245, 246, 249, 267, 270, 281, 291, 297, 301-303, 313, 340
Dynamic conflict: conflict experienced actively or reactively. 14, 67, 133, 152, 172, 249, 290, 298, 302
Internal conflict: antagonism inherent to a character, which constitutes an element of their initial characterization and is often exploited during the action. 139, 148
Static conflict: conflict experienced passively. 15, 68, 249
Trajectory conflict: conflict that pushes a character to evolve psychologically. 78, 194, 197, 200, 203, 278
Dialogued continuity (script, film script, playscript): the dramatic work itself. It includes, in full, everything that will be seen and heard meaningfully on stage, on screen, or on the pages of a comic strip. Synonymous with theater text, libretto, or screenplay. 51, 191, 233, 245, 263-288, 333
Non-dialogued continuity: cf. Treatment (2).
Reasonable contradictor: character who disapproves of the protagonist (dramatic or major) and with whom the viewer agrees, thus creating an intellectual identification. 88, 89, 164-165, 185, 192, 203, 280, 313
Contrast: juxtaposition (spatial or temporal) of two dramatic elements or two feelings, one highlighting the other. Contrast is often created by preparation. In characterization, contrast can occur between what is shown of the character and the human norm. 134, 156, 167, 178, 207, 236, 237, 277
Dramatic turn (twist): particularly surprising dramatic knot for the viewer. Cf. also Surprise. 186-187, 191, 197, 202, 221, 224, 255, 288
Third act dramatic turn: dramatic knot that relaunches the action at the beginning of the third act. One of the constitutive elements of the enriched structure. 177-178, 202, 223
Crescendo: construction principle consisting of placing increasingly intense obstacles and conflicts on the protagonist's path. 15, 126, 235, 271, 281, 341
Objective declaration: cf. First-second act passage. 73, 221
Deconstruction: process of telling a story by breaking the codes of classical narration, often by leading scenes out of order. 45-46, 241-242, 307, 323
Deus ex machina: Latinism (in French, "god from the machine") designating any help or solution that appears out of nowhere (in fact, from the author's hat) and facilitates the protagonist's life. By extension, any facility. 86, 128, 159, 173, 184, 250-255, 292
Second Act: everything that happens while the protagonist tries to achieve their goal. 

Diabolus ex machina: a neologism derived from deus ex machina, referring to any gratuitous and unjustified obstacle, excluding the inciting incident and the MacGuffin.

Diagnosis: analysis of the reasons why a script-story works or does not work from a narrative perspective.

Dialogue: words exchanged by characters in a dramatic work. By extension, dialogue includes monologue, commentary, aside, voice-over.

Dialogue-payment (payoff line): seemingly banal dialogue that only takes on full meaning in its context.

Stage direction: scenic indication in a play text, equivalent to descriptions in a screenplay. By extension, sometimes called "stage direction" is anything not said by the characters in a dramatic work, including their names at the head of dialogues.

Cornelian dilemma: a conflicting situation where a character (often the protagonist) must choose between two paths for which they are responsible, and whose resolution will necessarily create conflict. Example of an external obstacle of internal origin.

Documentary: film constructed from non-fictional documents.

Drama: "action" in Greek. By extension, visual and/or auditory representation of human action. The mediums of drama are theater, opera, cinema, television, internet, video games, virtual reality, and, to a lesser extent, radio and comics. In a broad sense, drama is human action involving a goal, obstacles, and an uncertain outcome. In this sense, drama is the main driver of life.

Dramatize, dramatization: operation consisting of putting conflict, stakes, and suspense into a situation or putting stakes into the presentation of a narrative element.

Dramaturgy: technique of drama. Also synonymous with drama. Dramaturgy is written to be seen and heard, unlike literature.

Clarification: resolution of the intellectual curiosity created by a mystery. A clarification is very rarely a surprise.

Snowball effect: see Snowball.

Ellipsis: syntactic omission. We distinguish between temporal ellipsis, which means time has passed, and narrative ellipsis, which allows the viewer to imagine new narrative information.

Stakes: what a character (often the protagonist) can gain or lose depending on whether they achieve their goal. Stakes are a source of motivation for characters and can be psychological and/or unconscious. The intensity of stakes determines the strength of emotional identification and the viewer's interest in following the protagonist's story.

Arc stakes: what a character can gain or lose if they change psychologically. Generally, it is an aspect of their humanity.

Epic (theater): treatment conceived by Bertolt Brecht and Erwin Piscator, in reference to Greek epic poetry, opposing classical theater (called Aristotelian) and striving to prioritize intellect over emotion, distancing over emotional identification, artificial over truthful, juxtaposition of independent elements over the development of an organic plot. Epic theater has sparked many reactions, influenced 20th-century theater, and spawned a cohort of playwrights and theorists more royalist than the king.

Episode: one of the works composing a series.

Progression: construction principle consisting of creating a logical (organic) sequence between the successive parts of the work.

Exploitation: process of taking advantage of an element of the work, whether it is an arena, a goal, a ghost, a characterization, premises, or a situation of dramatic irony. The last phase of exploitation is resolution. Joins the notion of creativity.

Exposition: narration (oral, most of the time) of a past, present, or future event. The most literary part of dramaturgy.

Ghost: past trauma haunting a character.

Red herring: preparation intended to mislead the viewer, generally to bring about a surprise, sometimes to create contrast. A successful red herring is undetectable.

False adversary: character who initially opposes the protagonist before helping them.

False ally: character who initially helps the protagonist before opposing them.

Flashback: anglicism referring to a backward look in the narrative. This backward look is shown and not told orally.

Flashforward: anglicism referring to a leap into the future of the narrative. Like the flashback, it is shown and not told orally.

Foundations: synthetic plan of a work, consisting of all the major directions of the narrative and including the pitch, the arena, the nature of the protagonist, their goal and obstacles, the dramatic response, the three-act structure, important characters, main dramatic ironies, and main dramatic knots.

Fractal (structure): principle according to which all parts (scene, sequence, act, episode, etc.), regardless of their scale, contain the same basic pattern.

Genre: category of works. Categorical criteria can be of several natures.

Happy ending: anglicism meaning "happy ending." This is not systematically equivalent to a positive dramatic response. In Hamlet, Oedipus Rex, and Thelma & Louise, the protagonists achieve their goal, but can we speak of a happy ending? Conversely, the protagonists of Casablanca and Some Like It Hot do not achieve it, but the ending is happy.

High concept: see Strong premise.

Story: chronological succession of facts relating to a given subject, as opposed to the narrative (or plot) which is the arrangement of the facts of a story in a chosen and specific order. The same story can therefore have several different narratives. The most famous example is the Oedipus myth, of which Oedipus Rex constructs one of the many possible narratives. The word "fable" is sometimes used to refer to either the story or the narrative.

Emotional identification: process by which the viewer feels empathy for a character, merges with them through emotion, feels what they feel.

Intellectual identification: process by which the viewer feels sympathy for a character, merges with them through thought, understands what they feel. This intellectual sympathy is sometimes called "cognitive empathy."

Inciting incident: dramatic event located in the first act that, directly or indirectly, unbalances the life of one or more characters—the future protagonist(s)—prompting them to define a goal for the duration of the dramatic unit (scene, sequence, episode, or work). Sometimes called "disruptive element."

Installation (of dramatic irony): moment when the viewer learns information that at least one character in the narrative does not know. This moment is often an important dramatic knot. Sometimes called "revelation" (for the viewer).

Plot (narrative): unfolding of events related to a protagonist-goal duo. It merges with the narrative when the unity of action is respected. Sometimes synonymous with structure as in the expression "plot narrative."

Dramatic irony: process of giving the viewer information that at least one character is unaware of (consciously), thus giving the viewer an advantage over one or more characters. Dramatic irony includes three phases: installation, exploitation, resolution. Dramatic irony is formulated as follows: "We know this-that, the character does not."

Diffuse dramatic irony: dramatic irony in which the viewer feels—rather than knows—something that certain characters do not feel. Diffuse dramatic irony comes from the distance that the viewer has over the characters and situations of a work of fiction. Diffuse dramatic irony is formulated as follows: "We feel this-that, this character does not feel it."

Milestone: important dramatic knot of the second act that generally begins or concludes a sequence.

Literature: everything written to be read (aloud or silently) and not seen and/or heard. 

Villain: character doing evil and most often constituting a source of obstacles for the protagonist.

Melodrama: dramatic genre characterized by the accumulation of external obstacles, particularly the injustices of life and unfortunate coincidences. Passivity in the face of this type of obstacle reinforces the sense of melodrama.

Milking: anglicism ("milking" in French) referring to the process of exploiting an element (setting, character, situation, etc.) to the fullest, to get the most juice out of it, to make the most of it, to whip the eggs into snow. Synonymous with optimal exploitation and form of creativity.

Moment of choice: dramatic knot during which one of the characters, often the protagonist, is pushed to make a crucial decision for themselves or for the action. Sometimes coincides with the climax, the arc climax, the first-act-second-act transition, or the point of no return.

Montage-sequence: series of images and/or very short scenes intended to summarize a logical action.

Motivation: what drives a character and justifies their actions. It can be an emotion, a stake, or a goal. It can be conscious or unconscious (according to the Russian doll model). Motivation is an important notion linked to the work of characterization but also to the viewer's participation.

Means: approach used by the protagonist (local or general) to achieve their goal. Difficult to reach, it becomes a sub-goal. Poorly chosen, it is part of internal obstacles.

Mystery: process of making the viewer understand that they are missing one or more pieces of information. The formulation could be: "What are they doing? We don't know" or "What are they talking about? We don't know" or "What does this image correspond to? We don't know." Mystery creates intellectual curiosity. The resolution of a mystery is a clarification, very rarely surprising.

Dramatic knot (plot point): information or event that alters the protagonist's course and advances the action. Sometimes referred to as a beat when the dramatic knot is small. In fact, a dramatic knot can take the form of a single word, a blink of an eye, an intonation—if they are significant—up to a global nuclear catastrophe.

Intent note: document of a few pages that can accompany a screenplay and is supposed to explain the author's intentions (and sometimes the director's). The author generally explains what they wanted to say and how they see the finished film.

Objective: goal, desire, will that a character seeks to achieve or satisfy, consciously or unconsciously. The objective of a work (or general objective) is the protagonist's will that encounters and generates the most obstacles. Also called "dramatic objective."

Ironic objective: objective attributed by the receiver to the victim of dramatic irony, which consists of discovering what the victim does not know, as soon as possible—if the victim is also the protagonist of the narrative—or as late as possible—if the victim is another character than the protagonist.

Arc objective: very unconscious objective of a character (often the protagonist but not always) corresponding to their psychological trajectory, thus to their possible transformation in the work. A bit like a desire for well-being or as the specific declination of a common objective to all human beings: to grow. Linked to the notion of dramatic need.

Obstacle: element (object, character, chance, feeling, etc.) that opposes an objective, producing conflict.

External obstacle: obstacle having nothing to do with the character it opposes. Synonymous with "obstacle directly or indirectly independent of the individual."

External obstacle of internal origin: external obstacle to the protagonist for which they are nevertheless responsible, directly or indirectly.

Internal obstacle: characteristic of a protagonist (most often psychological) constituting a source of obstacles for themselves. Synonymous with "obstacle inherent to the individual."

Main opponent: character embodying the main source of external obstacles for the protagonist without necessarily being an antagonist.

Organic: which belongs to an organized whole whose components are linked to each other.

Payment (payoff): moment when an element (object, dialogue, gesture, effect, situation, etc.) takes on a particular meaning due to preparation.

First-act-second-act transition: particular dramatic knot felt as a trigger by the viewer when the action is launched. Coincides with the declaration of objective when there is one.

Character: fictional human being. By extension, any entity (animal, object, etc.) possessing fictitiously an objective, conscious or unconscious.

Main character: character corresponding to the subject or/and the title of a dramatic work. Does not always coincide with the protagonist.

Pitch: anglicism meaning "launch" and referring to the succinct sales argument of a film, launched by an author to a decision-maker or by a distributor to the public. We distinguish the one-line pitch (or logline) which summarizes the action in one sentence from the tagline pitch which resembles more a poster slogan and gives an idea of the style or atmosphere. The one-line pitch proves to be an excellent writing tool as it serves as a guideline for the author. Also called the "dramatic pitch."

Dramatic pitch (one-line pitch, logline, dramatic pitch): summary of a dramatic work in one or two lines. It is constructed from the basic elements of the narrative: arena, inciting incident, protagonist, characterization, objective, stakes, obstacles, suspense.

Arc pitch: one-sentence summary of the internal trajectory of the arc protagonist.

Point of no return: moment in the work (generally located in the first half) from which the viewer feels that the protagonist will never be the same again or cannot go back without consequences. Can be treated as an important dramatic knot.

Portrait: narrative that explores a particular character trait (jealousy in Othello) or emphasizes a character with all their facets (Don Juan).

Strong premise: enticing narrative starting point or subject with an enticing pitch. Often conceived with the formula "What if...?"

Premises: starting point of a narrative, often including the arena, characterization of important characters, and the inciting incident.

First act: everything that happens before the protagonist's goal is perceived by the viewer.

Preparation: operation consisting of making an information or event plausible, predictable, or significant. Also, the first part of this operation (setup, planting), the second being the payment (payoff). Preparation is closely linked to dramaturgical syntax.

Prescription: idea or recommendation intended to improve the narrative quality of a fiction case.

Protagonist: character in a dramatic work who experiences the most dynamic conflict throughout the work.

Ironic protagonist: victim of dramatic irony whose ignorance leads us to attribute an objective to them: to know what they do not know and/or to escape the conflicts generated by their ignorance.

Local protagonist: character of a scene who experiences the most dynamic conflict.

Arc protagonist: character in a dramatic work who has an arc objective. This can be the protagonist or another character. There may also be none in the work. Often, they change psychologically during the action. But not systematically. They may not achieve their arc objective.

Dramatic question: will the protagonist achieve their goal? This question is created in the viewer's mind at the end of the first act. It generates suspense (in the broad sense of the term).

Emotional question: question that creates a mix of hope and fear in the receiver's mind when asked. Different from an intellectual question posed by a mystery. Emotional questions can last throughout the action, and their effects can overlap.

Ironic question: will the victim of dramatic irony discover, when and how, what they do not know? This question is created in the viewer's mind when dramatic irony is installed. It can reinforce, replace, or supplant the dramatic question.

Arc question: will the arc protagonist change, and if so, in what way?

Narrative: see Story.

Rule: prescription indicating what must be done in a determined case. It can be known consciously or unconsciously. Like all languages, dramaturgy relies on rules, whether in the sense of "constants" or "guides." The word encompasses a variety of notions and various degrees of constraint.

Remake: anglicism referring to the new version of an already existing work. The remake is not a practice unique to Hollywood cinema. It has existed since Antiquity.

Dramatic response: answer to the dramatic question. It can be positive, negative, or not be (an extremely rare case, except in so-called "auteur" cinema).

Arc response: answer to the arc question. It can be positive—the arc protagonist grows—null—the arc protagonist does not change—or even negative—the arc protagonist declines.

Resolution: moment when a narrative mechanism finds its culmination after being exploited. The resolution of an action is its climax. The resolution of suspense is the dramatic response. The resolution of a mystery is a clarification. The resolution of a red herring is a surprise. The resolution of dramatic irony is an obligatory scene. The resolution of a characterization can be the arc climax and its arc response.

Feeling: what we naturally feel, what manifests in us upon receiving a work of fiction. Often the sum of an objective part and a subjective part. Corresponds to the symptom in the context of script doctoring.
Objective feeling: part of a receiver's feeling that relies on the universal or timeless mechanisms of storytelling and is therefore often shared by many other receivers.

Subjective feeling: part of a receiver's feeling that relies on personal tastes.

Life routine: an element of character development (often for the future protagonist) depicting, as the name suggests, their social or psychological life habits. The life routine sometimes reveals a dramatic need.

Screenplay (film script): the plan or narrative of a film (or a comic strip). Also called continuity dialogue. Unfortunately for screenwriters concerned with storytelling, the word refers to two different entities. The plan sometimes contains a narrative but not always. Some films have had a scenario-plan as a working tool but never a scenario-narrative because they tell nothing (or very little). It also happens that the scenario-narrative is developed in the editing room as much as on paper before shooting. This is often the case in documentaries. Another important nuance: the scenario-plan is ephemeral; it no longer exists once the film is shot. One can say, as is often heard, that it is a transitional work. In contrast, the scenario-narrative always exists in the film, like a beating heart. Its quality often determines that of the film. Therefore, while one can say that the scenario-narrative is not a work in itself (like a novel), it is nevertheless a complete work (like the music of a film). In a broad sense, the word "scenario" refers to the unfolding of a narrative or even a real event. In this sense, a theater text is the scenario of the play. Similarly, one might speak, in everyday life, of the scenario of a military action, a rugby match, or an ecological disaster.

Scene (or dramatic scene): part of a dramatic work presenting a local action. A dramatic scene can take place in several different settings, thus including several logistical scenes.

Scene to be done: any scene (or moment) expected by the spectator, which provides a certain gratification. The scene to be done is the payoff of an announcement. The climax and the obligatory scene are the most "to be done" of all scenes.

Scene-by-scene (step outline): a plan of a narrative, consisting of a succession of scenes summarized in a few lines. Also called "sequence of scenes" or "sequencer."

Aftermath scene: a moment of calm during which both characters and spectators have the opportunity to digest a scene of intense conflict. The aftermath scene is a form of payoff that contributes to the rhythm and relief of the work.

Logistical scene: a short part of a dramatic work defined by changes in setting, time, or characters. In a screenplay, logistical scenes are often numbered and designated as follows: INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT. The distinction between logistical scene and dramatic scene is similar to that between logistical act and dramatic act. Sometimes called "sequence" in French cinema.

Obligatory scene: resolution of dramatic irony, i.e., the moment when the victim of dramatic irony is finally made aware of what they were ignorant of. The obligatory scene is a particular form of scene to be done, the most anticipated of all. It is also an important dramatic knot, often a milestone. Sometimes called "revelation" (for the ex-victim, not for the spectator).

Script doctor: an anglicism meaning "screenplay fixer," referring to a professional called upon to uncover and possibly correct the flaws of a finished screenplay. The principle also exists for theater (long before 1895). In a way, anyone who finds a problem in a screenplay (or a screenplay problem in a film) and suggests a change is doing script doctoring. This can even be a character like Cheech (Chazz Palminteri) in "Bullets Over Broadway." In a restrictive sense, a script doctor is someone who has the skills to do script doctoring and is paid to do so. When the script doctor rewrites, they become a co-author. Ben Hecht, William Goldman, and Claude Sautet are three famous script doctors in cinema circles. In the United States, a distinction is made between the "script doctor" who rewrites the screenplay and the "script analyst" (or "script expert" or "script consultant") who merely provides consultation.

Sequence: a group of scenes united by the same sub-objective and often framed between two milestones. In French cinema, what is sometimes called a "sequence" is nothing more than a logistical scene. My conception of the sequence is that of the Anglo-Saxons.

Sequencer: see Scene-by-scene.

Series: a set of works possessing common elements. These are most often characters (Oedipal, Falstaff, James Bond, Columbo, Tintin, etc.), but it can also be a theme.

Sitcom: an anglicism (contraction of "situation comedy") referring to a comedic TV show with recurring sets and characters and a self-contained episode (usually 25 minutes). The word "sitcom" sometimes has a pejorative connotation. It is unjustified. As with everything, there are mediocre sitcoms and excellent sitcoms. And an excellent sitcom does more than retain the audience. Like any quality comedy, it is a work of art that physically does good, speaks of life, and conveys meaning.

Sketch: a group of scenes telling a story, often included in a collection. Closely associated with certain short films or short plays. Equivalent to a sequence in a road movie.

Soap: an anglicism referring to a melodramatic serial. The expression is an abbreviation of "soap opera," in reference to the soap brands that sponsored these serials in the USA. Also called "soap opera" in France or Canada and "telenovela" in Portugal and Latin America.

Subplot: a secondary action, possessing like any action its trio protagonist-objective-obstacles, the protagonist being, most of the time, different from that of the main action. The subplot is supposed to generate, more or less directly, obstacles for the main action.

Thematic subplot: a set of moments linked to the same theme or secondary subject treated three times or more.

Sub-objective: a semi-local objective used by the protagonist to achieve their general objective. Can correspond to the objective of a sequence.

Spectacular: anything that distracts or fascinates by its rarity. Etymologically, the spectacular imposes itself on the eye. But a sound or an idea can be spectacular. Synonymous with "sensational." Often complicit in voyeurism and the fantasy of omnipotence.

Structure: the arrangement of the different parts of a dramatic work. The notion often refers to the three acts and the main dramatic knots (climax, inciting incident, etc.). But the deepest and most powerful structuring work is a work of preparation and organic construction of the narrative.

Fractal structure: see Fractal.

Enriched structure: a variant of the classic three-act structure that consists of introducing a twist at the beginning of the third act to revive the action. The third act then proposes a second climax and a second dramatic response and has its own third act.

Three-act structure: logical division of any action, real or fictional, of a living organism: before the action-during the action-after the action. This definition does not correspond to that of Syd Field and many screenplay theorists.

Sequence of scenes: see Scene-by-scene.

Subject: specific exploitation of an idea or theme. Note: In everyday language, the word "subject" is often synonymous with "theme." But in narratology, the subject is quite close to the dramatic pitch. If you say you have a play subject and someone asks what it's about, you won't answer: "It's about barbarism" or "It deals with Dutch gastronomy." You will rather say: "It's the story of blah blah blah..." You won't be far from the pitch. The difference between theme and subject is the same as for philosophy exams. The themes are justice, art, truth, etc. The subjects exploit the themes: "Are the demands for justice and freedom separable?", "Does art transform our consciousness of reality?", "Is discussion the path to truth?" etc. A subject can therefore address several themes.

Surprise: a process that consists of giving the spectator information they did not expect. Called "coup de théâtre" when the surprise is significant. The surprise is always the payoff of a false lead.

Suspense: anguished tension, generating anxiety, experienced by the spectator and created by the uncertainty of the dramatic response. Also called "tension." There is suspense not only in thrillers and "suspense" films but in any work that poses an emotional question and exploits it.

Symptom: what one naturally feels, what manifests in us when reading a text of fiction or receiving a work of fiction. Often the sum of an objective feeling and a subjective feeling.

Synopsis: a summary of a dramatic work already written, respecting the order of the narrative and spanning between two and five pages. A practical decision-making tool but a very debatable writing tool.

Telegraphing: involuntary or clumsy preparation consisting of making information predictable and unpleasantly perceived as such by the spectator.

Emotional beat: a dramatic knot that changes a character's emotion.

Theme: idea or question addressed by a narrative. The themes of Jurassic Park are genetic manipulation, dinosaurs, omnipotence, amusement parks. A work can therefore contain several themes. Conversely, the same theme can give rise to thirty-six different subjects. The theme of The Monsters is mental monstrosity. This gives rise to twenty sketches, thus twenty subjects.

Topper: an anglicism referring to a dramatic element (often short and funny) that exploits a scene or action by crowning it. Sort of like a cherry on top.

Total: a scene that includes almost all mechanisms: protagonist-objective-obstacles, the three acts, a climax, conflict, emotion, suspense, a crescendo, evolution, comedy elements, beautiful characterization, a diurnal unit, payoffs, setting, dramatic irony, surprise, at least one beautiful piece of activity, and good dialogues.

Treatment (1): the way of handling a subject. The treatment can be serious or comic, naturalistic or fantastic, realistic or artificial (poetic, musical, symbolic, etc.), Aristotelian or epic, notions that are not incompatible.

Treatment (2) (treatment): a plan of a dramatic work, consisting of a series of detailed but non-dialogued scenes. Synonymous with non-dialogued continuity.

Internal trajectory: cleansing or transformation (moral or psychological) of one of the characters (the protagonist of the trajectory) during the narrative. This may concern the thematic protagonist but not always.

Suspension of disbelief: the attitude of a fiction spectator who leaves their Cartesian mind at the door and accepts the conventions and artifices of the work of art. The suspension of disbelief has operated in theater since time immemorial - if only with the famous fourth wall - obviously in the case of science fiction works or black-and-white films, but also more subtly in all realistic works. It is often associated with the question of narrative plausibility where it is delicate to exploit.

Triad A-A-N: a group of three elements in which the first element is repeated identically once, creating an impression of habit, before being altered at its third appearance.

Meshing: organic arrangement of the narrative in which the scenes give the impression of being interwoven. A form of milking at the structural level.

Three acts (structure in): see Structure in three acts.

Third act: everything that happens after the protagonist has achieved or abandoned their objective.

Unity: the character of what is unique. Applies to different notions: tone, style, genre, theme, treatment, characterization (character coherence), etc., and especially action, place, and time.

Unity of action: the principle according to which all parts of the work (including possible subplots) must serve a single action. Unity of action is linked to the uniqueness of the general objective and the human need for order.

Unity of place: the principle according to which the action must take place in a single location.

Unity of time: the principle according to which the action must take place within a limited time frame (from a few hours to a day).

Urgency (urgency, time lock): feeling created by the association of suspense and lack of time.

Victim (of conflict): thematic protagonist and spectator. The conflict can be serious or comic.

Victim (of dramatic irony): character ignorant of information known to the spectator.

Leftover: a narrative element that had meaning or utility in a previous version of the text but no longer does. Pure products of indispensable rewriting, leftovers handicap the work and are sometimes difficult to spot.

Voice-over: dialogue spoken by a character who does not appear on stage or on screen at the time they speak. It can be a general commentary or off-screen dialogue.
The Castafiore Emerald, album (Tintin series) written and drawn by Hergé (1963) 31, 214, 268  
Billy Elliot, film directed by Stephen Daldry (2000), screenplay by Lee Hall 83  
Blackadder, TV series directed by Paul Welland (1999), screenplay by Richard Curtis and Ben Elton 276  
Black Mirror, TV series created by Charlie Brooker (2011-...) 57  
Blow Out, film directed by Brian De Palma (1981), screenplay by B.D.P. 281  
Blueberry, comic series drawn by Jean Giraud (1965-1986), screenplay by Jean-Michel Charlier 54, 69, 207, 212, 308  
Boardwalk Empire, TV series created by Terence Winter (2010-2014) 168  
Bombón: El Perro, film directed by Carlos Sorin (2004), screenplay by C.S., Santiago Calori, and Salvador Roselli 281  
The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, film directed by Sergio Leone (1966), screenplay by S.L, Age, Furia Scarpelli, and Luciano Vincenzoni 159  
Bonnie and Clyde, film directed by Arthur Penn (1967), screenplay by David Newman and Robert Benton 189  
Boomtown, TV series created by Graham Yost (2002-2003) 47  
The Bourgeois Gentleman, play by Molière (1670) 164  
The Box, film directed by Richard Kelly (2009), screenplay by R.K. based on a story by Richard Matheson 145  
Braquo, TV series created by Olivier Marchal (2009-2016) 211  
Breaking Bad, TV series created by Vince Gilligan (2008-2013) 69, 72, 84, 147, 159, 207  
Broadchurch, TV series created by Chris Chibnall (2013-...) 152  
Broken Flowers, film directed by Jim Jarmusch (2005), J.J., Bill Raden, and Sara Driver 321  
The Bronzés, film directed by Patrice Leconte (1978), screenplay by the Splendid team 66, 76  
Buck Danny, comic series drawn by Victor Hubinon or Francis Bergèse (1948-1988), screenplay by Jean-Michel Charlier 53  
Buddy Buddy, film directed by Billy Wilder (1981), screenplay by B.W. and I.A.L. Diamond based on a play and screenplay by Francis Veber 184  
Buddy Longway, comic series drawn by Derib (1974-1987), screenplay by D. 55  

The Bureau, TV series created by Eric Rochant (2015-...) 69  
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, film directed by George Roy Hill (1968), screenplay by William Goldman 281, 313  
Cadfael, TV series created based on the novels by Ellis Peters (1994-1998) 47  
La Cage aux Folles, play by Jean Poiret (1973) 82, 215  
Call the Midwife, TV series created by Heidi Thomas (2012-) 155  
The Cameraman, film directed by Buster Keaton and Edward Sedgwick (1928) 177, 264  
Carrie, film directed by Brian De Palma (1977), screenplay by Lawrence Cohen based on a novel by Stephen King 54  
Casablanca, film directed by Michael Curtiz (1942), screenplay by Julius & Philip Epstein and Howard Koch based on a play by Murray Burnett and Joan Alison 89, 99, 120, 123, 129, 135, 140, 150, 164, 170, 192, 207, 209, 226  
Célimène and the Cardinal, play by Jacques Rampal (1992) 161  
Cinderella, fairy tale by Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm (1812) 9, 88  
The Caucasian Chalk Circle, play by Bertolt Brecht (1945) 41, 142  
Dead Poets Society, film directed by Peter Weir (1989), screenplay by Tom Schulman 132  
The Cherry Orchard, play by Anton Chekhov (1904) 13, 74, 77, 87, 127, 137, 138  
Some Like It Hot, film directed by Billy Wilder (1959), screenplay by B.W. and I.A.L. Diamond based on a screenplay by Robert Thoeren and Michael Logan (Fanfare of Love) 56, 70, 85, 179, 181, 237, 238, 248, 250, 253, 303, 322, 328, 346  
César, film directed by Marcel Pagnol (1936), screenplay by M.P. 333  
Time After Time, film directed by Nicholas Meyer (1979), screenplay by N.M. based on a novel by Karl Alexander & Steve Hays 37, 167, 168, 171, 193, 302  
When the Cat's Away, film directed by Cédric Klapisch (1996), screenplay by C.K. 324  
Right You Are (If You Think So), play by Luigi Pirandello (1916) 41, 43  
Singin' in the Rain, film directed by Stanley Donen and Gene Kelly (1952), screenplay by Betty Comden and Adolph Green 61  
Outlander, novel by Diana Gabaldon (1991) 142  
Charlie Chaplin, gifted and solitary tramp created by Charles Chaplin (1914-1936) 322  

Sleeping Beauty, fairy tale by Charles Perrault (1697) 292  
The Clockmaker, film directed by Pierre Granier-Deferre (1971), screenplay by P.G.D. and Pascal Jardin based on a novel by Georges Simenon 161  
Blueberry's Shadow, album (Blueberry series) drawn by Jean Giraud (1970), screenplay by Jean-Michel Charlier 69  
A Knight's Tale, film directed by Brian Helgeland (2001), screenplay by B.H. 252  
The Dark Knight, film directed by Christopher Nolan (2008), screenplay by C.N., Jonathan Nolan, and David S. Goyer based on Bob Kane 123  
Stagecoach, film directed by John Ford (1939), screenplay by Dudley Nichols based on a story by Ernest Haycox 208  
The Lodger, film directed by Alfred Hitchcock (1927), screenplay by Eliot Stannard based on a novel by Marie Belloc Lowndes 268  
The Goat, film directed by Francis Veber (1981), screenplay by F.V. 311, 319  
Chinatown, film directed by Roman Polanski (1974), screenplay by Robert Towne 137  
Sophie's Choice, film directed by Alan Pakula (1982), screenplay by A.P. based on a novel by William Styron (1979) 137, 270  
The Chorus, film directed by Christophe Barratier (2004), screenplay by C.B. and Philippe Lopes-Curval based on The Cage of Nightingales (1945) 346  
The Gunfighter, film directed by Henry King (1950), screenplay by William Bowers, Andre De Toth, and William Sellers 55, 139  
The Cid, play by Pierre Corneille (1636) 66, 276  
Heaven Can Wait, film directed by Ernst Lubitsch (1943), screenplay by Samson Raphaelson based on a play by Leslie Bush-Fekete 330  
City of Men, TV series created by Kátia Lund and Fernando Meirelles (2002-2005) 167  
Citizen Kane, film directed by Orson Welles (1940), screenplay by O.W. and Herman Mankiewicz 138, 140, 150, 174, 275, 282, 321, 325, 345  
Cocoon, film directed by Ron Howard (1985), screenplay by Tom Benedek based on a story by David Saperstein 54  
The Calculus Affair, album (Tintin series) written and drawn by Hergé (1958) 254, 268  
Columbo, TV series created by Richard Levinson and William Link (1971-2003) 332  
Some Came Running, film directed by Vincente Minnelli (1958), screenplay by John Patrick and Arthur Sheekman based on a novel by James Jones 206  

The ComDads, film directed by Francis Veber (1983), screenplay by F.V. 19, 72, 128, 134, 157, 160, 207, 212, 304, 306  
Family Plot, film directed by Alfred Hitchcock (1976), screenplay by Ernest Lehman based on a novel by Victor Canning 276  
The Concert, film directed by Radu Mihăileanu (2009), screenplay by R.M., Alain-Michel Blanc, Matthew Robbins based on a story by Hector Cabello Reyes and Thierry Degrandi 152  
The Contract, play by Francis Veber (1969) 24  
The Double Bass, play by Patrick Süskind (1984) 161  
The Sucker, film directed by Gérard Oury (1964), screenplay by G.O. and Marcel Jullian 144  
The Corporation, documentary directed by Jennifer Abbott and Mark Achbar (2003), screenplay by Joel Bakan and Harold Crook based on a book by J.B. 29  
Notting Hill, film directed by Roger Michell (1999), screenplay by Richard Curtis 332  
Witness, feature film project written by Corinne Klomp 195, 226, 242, 255  
Bullets Over Broadway, film directed by Woody Allen (1994), screenplay by W.A. and Douglas McGrath 120, 336  
The Courtyard of Songs, film directed by Francisco Ribeiro (1942), screenplay by F.R., Vasco Santana, and Antonio Lopes Ribeiro 208, 210  
The Critique of the School for Wives, play by Molière (1663) 37  
Crocodile Dundee, film directed by Peter Faiman (1986), screenplay by Paul Hogan, John Cornell, and Ken Shadie 168  
The Navigator, film directed by Buster Keaton and Donald Crisp (1924) 161  
Culbuto, feature film project written by Yves Lavandier 128, 200, 226, 229, 244, 255, 260, 285  
Cyrano de Bergerac, play by Edmond Rostand (1897) 64, 66, 74, 76, 97, 133, 134, 145, 148, 163, 173, 180, 181, 211, 212, 281, 303, 344  
His Girl Friday, film directed by Howard Hawks (1940), screenplay by Charles Lederer based on a play by Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthur (The Front Page) 346  
The Damned, film directed by Luchino Visconti (1969), screenplay by L.V., Nicola Badalucco, and Enrico Medioli 299  
Dances with Wolves, film directed by Kevin Costner (1991), screenplay by Michael Blake based on a novel by M.B. 59  

The Secret in Their Eyes, film directed by Juan José Campanella (2009), screenplay by J.J.C. and Eduardo Sacheri based on a novel by E.S. 212, 248, 279, 282  
The Beat That My Heart Skipped, film directed by Jacques Audiard (2005), screenplay by J.A. and Tonino Benacquista based on a film by James Toback 129, 193  
The Decline of the American Empire, film directed by Denys Arcand (1986), screenplay by D.A. 208, 210  
Jaws, film directed by Steven Spielberg (1975), screenplay by Peter Benchley and Carl Gottlieb based on a novel by P.B. 29, 122, 167, 172, 184, 185  
Jaws 2, film directed by Jeannot Szwarc (1978), screenplay by Carl Gottlieb and Howard Sackler 63  
Departures, film directed by Yôjirô Takita (2008), screenplay by Kundô Koyama 34, 118, 120, 232, 347  
The Last Battle, film directed by Luc Besson (1983), screenplay by L.B. and Pierre Jolivet 264  
The Last Laugh, film directed by Friedrich W. Murnau (1924), screenplay by Carl Mayer 264  
The Last Metro, film directed by François Truffaut (1980), screenplay by F.T. and Suzanne Schiffman 188, 214  
The Desert Without Light, album (Comanche series) drawn by Hermann (1976), screenplay by Greg 55  
Desire Under the Elms, play by Eugene O'Neill (1924) 59, 160, 237  
Desperate Housewives, TV series created by Marc Cherry (2004-2012) 69, 143, 233  
Salmon Fishing in the Yemen, film directed by Lasse Hallström (2012), screenplay by Simon Beaufoy based on a novel by Paul Torday 56  
Destination Moon, film directed by Irving Pichel (1950), screenplay by Alford Van Ronkel, Robert Heinlein, and James O'Hanlon based on a novel by R.H. 345  
All Our Desires, film directed by Nils Tavernier (2013), screenplay by N.T., Laurent Bertoni, and Pierre Leyssieux 151  
The Soothsayer, album (Asterix series) drawn by Albert Uderzo (1972), screenplay by René Goscinny 251  
Dexter, TV series (2006-2013) developed by James Manos Jr. based on a novel by Jeff Lindsay 135, 187, 282  
Diabolique, film directed by Henri-Georges Clouzot (1954), screenplay by H.G.C., Jérôme Géronimi, René Masson, Frédéric Grendel based on a novel by Boileau and Narcejac 187  
The Great Dictator, film directed by Charles Chaplin (1940), screenplay by C.C. 41, 43, 251  
The Dinner Game, film directed by Francis Veber (1998), screenplay by F.V. based on a play by F.V. 35, 111, 167, 189, 238, 241  
The Dinner Game, play by Francis Veber (1993) 111  

The King's Speech, film directed by Tom Hooper (2010), screenplay by David Seidler 122  
La Discrète, film directed by Christian Vincent (1990), screenplay by C.V. and Jean-Pierre Ronssin 183, 184, 300  
And Then There Were None, novel by Agatha Christie (1939) 271  
Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb, film directed by Stanley Kubrick (1964), screenplay by S.K., Terry Southern, and Peter George based on a novel by P.G. 170  
Don Juan, play by Molière (1665) 74, 77, 87, 111, 164, 183, 345  
The Dirty Dozen, film directed by Robert Aldrich (1967), screenplay by Nunnally Johnson and Lukas Heller 128, 209  
Downton Abbey, TV series created by Julian Fellowes (2010-2015) 69, 168  
How to Train Your Dragon, film directed by Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders (2010), screenplay by D.D., C.S., and William Davies based on a novel by Cressida Cowell 72, 83  
House M.D., TV series created by David Shore (2004-2012) 47, 135  
Dr. M, film directed by Claude Chabrol (1990), screenplay by C.C., Sollace Mitchell, Wolfgang Hundhammer based on Thomas Bauermeister 304  
The Odd Couple, play by Neil Simon (1966) 161  
Too Beautiful for You, film directed by Bertrand Blier (1989), screenplay by B.B. 161  
Swann's Way, novel by Marcel Proust (1913) 138  
Duel, film directed by Steven Spielberg (1971), screenplay by Richard Matheson based on a story by R.M. 74, 161, 172  
Hell in the Pacific, film directed by John Boorman (1968), screenplay by Alexander Jacobs, Eric Bercovici, and Reuben Bercovitch 161  
Dune, film directed by David Lynch (1984), screenplay by D.L. based on a novel by Frank Herbert 290  
The School for Wives, play by Molière (1662) 66, 72, 74, 144, 304, 318  
Electra, play by Sophocles (circa 410 BC) 345  
The Dinner, film directed by Edouard Molinaro (1973), screenplay by Francis Veber, based on a play by F.V. 24, 161, 184  
The Empire Strikes Back, film directed by Irvin Kershner (1980), screenplay by Leigh Brackett, Lawrence Kasdan, and George Lucas 122  
Waiting for Godot, play by Samuel Beckett (1953) 41, 87, 174, 186, 195, 281, 321, 345  
Children of Paradise, film directed by Marcel Carné (1945), screenplay by Jacques Prévert 85, 256  

White Heat, film directed by Raoul Walsh (1949), screenplay by Ivan Goff and Ben Roberts based on a story by Virginia Kellogg 15  
The Party, play by Francis Veber (1968) 51  
The Enemy Within, film directed by Florent-Emilio Siri (2007), screenplay by F.E.S. and Patrick Rotman 155  
Emanon, comic album drawn by Vince (2015), screenplay by V. 71  
The Thief, film directed by Russell Rouse (1952), screenplay by R.R. and Clarence Greene 264  
E.T., film directed by Steven Spielberg (1982), screenplay by Melissa Mathison 168, 177, 254, 302  
The Mysterious Star, album (Tintin series) written and drawn by Hergé (1942) 170  
Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, novel by Robert Louis Stevenson (1886) 139  
Strange Interlude, play by Eugene O'Neill (1928) 140  
The Nightmare Before Christmas, film directed by Henry Selick (1993), screenplay by Michael McDowell and Caroline Thompson based on a story by Tim Burton 84, 164  
The Stranger, novel by Albert Camus (1942) 161  
The Boston Strangler, film directed by Richard Fleischer (1968), screenplay by Edward Anhalt based on a book by Gerold Frank 211  
All About Eve, film directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz (1950), screenplay by J.L.M. based on a story by Mary Orr 142, 270, 314  
Mr. Deeds Goes to Town, film directed by Frank Capra (1936), screenplay by Robert Riskin based on a story by Clarence Budington Kelland 83  
Fahrenheit 9/11, documentary directed by Michael Moore (2004), screenplay by M.M. 29  
Family Life, film directed by Ken Loach (1971), screenplay by David Mercer 216  
The Easy Life, film directed by Dino Risi (1962), screenplay by D.R., Ennio Scola, and Ruggero Maccari, based on a story by Rodolfo Sonego 74, 77, 211, 282, 320, 322  
Goya's Ghosts, film directed by Milos Forman (2006), screenplay by M.F. and Jean-Claude Carrière 155  
Fargo, film directed by Joel Coen (1996), screenplay by J.C. and Ethan Coen 85  
Faust, play by Johann W. von Goethe (1806-1832) 189, 330, 345  
The Baker's Wife, film directed by Marcel Pagnol (1938), screenplay by M.P. based on a novel by Jean Giono 344  

I Married a Dead Man, novel by William Irish (1942) 25, 27  
Rear Window, film directed by Alfred Hitchcock (1954), screenplay by John Michael Hayes based on a story by Cornell Woolrich 121, 180, 181, 184, 316  
Festen, film directed by Thomas Vinterberg (1998), screenplay by T.V. and Mogens Rukov 189  
Babette's Feast, film directed by Gabriel Axel (1987), screenplay by G.A. based on a story by Karen Blixen 83  
The Lucky Luke Adventure, album drawn by Morris (1985), screenplay by Guy Vidal 272  
Splendor in the Grass, film directed by Elia Kazan (1961), screenplay by William Inge 216  
Saturday Night Fever, film directed by John Badham (1977), screenplay by Norman Wexler and Nick Cohn 61  
Pippi Longstocking, series of novels by Astrid Lindgren (1945-1948) 142  
3 Godfathers, film directed by John Ford (1948), screenplay by Frank Nugent, Laurence Stallings, and Peter Kyne 160  
The Final Cut, film directed by Omar Naim (2004), screenplay by O.N. 33  
Flashforward, TV series developed by Brannon Braga and David S. Goyer based on a novel by Robert J. Sawyer (2009-2010) 173  
The Flowers of War, film directed by Zhang Yimou (2011), screenplay by Liu Heng based on a novel by Yan Geling 84, 232  
Forrest Gump, film directed by Robert Zemeckis (1994), screenplay by Eric Roth based on a novel by Winston Groom 83  
Fort Navajo, album (Blueberry series) drawn by Jean Giraud (1965), screenplay by Jean-Michel Charlier 207, 209  
The Impostures of Scapin, play by Molière (1671) 83  
Friends, sitcom created by David Crane and Marta Kauffman (1994-2004) 233  
The Love Nest, film directed by Buster Keaton and Edward Cline (1923), screenplay by B.K. 253  
The Fugitive, film directed by Andrew Davis (1993), screenplay by Jeb Stuart and David Towhy based on a series by Roy Huggins 186  
The Fugitives, film directed by Francis Veber (1986), screenplay by F.V. 70, 240  
Funny Games, film directed by Michael Haneke (1997), screenplay by M.H. 29  
The Apartment, film directed by Billy Wilder (1960), screenplay by B.W. and I.A.L. Diamond 34, 55, 74, 89, 101, 119, 123, 145, 177, 179, 190, 191, 279  

Garfield, comic series drawn and written by Jim Davis (1978-...) 206  
Cops and Robbers, film directed by Steno and Mario Monicelli (1951), screenplay by Steno and Piero Tellini 62  
The Glittering Gate, play by Lord Dunsany (1909) 345  
Gotham Central, comic series drawn by Michael Lark (2002-2006), screenplay by Greg Rucka and Ed Brubaker 253  
Taste of Cherry, film directed by Abbas Kiarostami (1997), screenplay by A.K. 238  
The Taste of Others, film directed by Agnès Jaoui (2000), screenplay by A.J. and Jean-Pierre Bacri 68  
The Big Blue, film directed by Luc Besson (1987), screenplay by L.B., Robert Garland, Marylin Goldin, Jacques Mayol, Marc Perrier 31  
The Great Escape, film directed by John Sturges (1963), screenplay by James Clavell and W.R. Burnett based on a book by Paul Brickhill 166, 180, 181, 183, 185, 206  
The Grand Illusion, film directed by Jean Renoir (1937), screenplay by J.R. and Charles Spaak 27, 209, 271  
The Grande Odalisque, painting by Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres (1814) 7  
The Wise Guys, film directed by Robert Enrico (1965), screenplay by R.E. and José Giovanni based on a novel by J.G. 169  
The Grand Maneuver, film directed by René Clair (1955), screenplay by R.C. and Jérôme Géronimi 183, 184, 208, 304  
Green Card, film directed by Peter Weir (1991), screenplay by P.W. 161  
The Frogs, play by Aristophanes (405 BC) 23  
Star Wars, film directed by George Lucas (1977), screenplay by G.L. 47, 89, 109  
The Trojan War Will Not Take Place, play by Jean Giraudoux (1935) 28, 41  
Quest for Fire, film directed by Jean-Jacques Annaud (1981), screenplay by Gérard Brach based on a novel by J.H. Rosny Aîné 264  
Hamlet, film directed by Kenneth Branagh (1996), screenplay by K.B. based on a play by William Shakespeare 276  
Hamlet, play by William Shakespeare (1601) 38, 64, 66, 74, 132, 139, 147, 158, 165, 175, 267, 269, 270, 276, 303, 318, 344, 345, 346  
Hamlet, lost play attributed to Thomas Kyd (circa 1589) 345  
Hannibal, film directed by Ridley Scott (2001), screenplay by David Mamet and Steven Zaillian based on a novel by Thomas Harris 29  
Hannibal, TV series developed by Bryan Fuller (2013-2015) based on a novel by Thomas Harris 206  
Hansel and Gretel, fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm (1812) 291  

Happy Valley, TV series created by Sally Wainwright (2014-...) 143, 281  
Harold and Maude, film directed by Hal Ashby (1971), screenplay by Colin Higgins 54, 61  
Harry Potter, series of novels written by J.K. Rowling (1997-2007) 47, 159  
Halfway to the Moon, TV series created by Yves Lavandier (2015- ) 11  
Haut les cœurs!, film directed by Sólveig Anspach (1999), screenplay by Sólveig Anspach and Pierre-Erwan Guillaume 147  
Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer, film directed by John McNaughton (1986), screenplay by J.M.N. and Richard Fire 136  
Henry V, play by William Shakespeare (1599) 318  
Man with the Silver Star, album (Blueberry series) drawn by Jean Giraud (1969), screenplay by Jean-Michel Charlier 212  
The Man Who Knew Too Much, film directed by Alfred Hitchcock (1956), screenplay by John Michael Hayes and Angus MacPhail based on a story by Charles Bennett and D.B. Wyndham-Lewis 155, 211, 232, 308, 346  
The Man Who Would Be King, film directed by John Huston (1975), screenplay by J.H., Gladys Hill based on a story by Rudyard Kipling 209  
Outlaw, album (Lucky Luke series) drawn by Morris (1954), screenplay by M. 160  
No Exit, play by Jean-Paul Sartre (1944) 41, 160  
Hum Log, soap opera created by Manohar Shyam Joshi (1984-1985) 29  
If You Are the One, film directed by Feng Xiaogang (2008), screenplay by F.X. and Chen Kuo-Fu 56  
The Naked Island, film directed by Kaneto Shindo (1960), screenplay by K.S. 264  
Once Upon a Time in the West, film directed by Sergio Leone (1968), screenplay by S.L., Sergio Donati, Dario Argento, and Bernardo Bertolucci 20, 85, 162, 279, 309  
Once Upon a Time in France, comic series drawn by Sylvain Vallée (2007-2012), screenplay by Fabien Nury 136  
Imbattable, comic series by Pascal Jousselin (2017-...) 154  
Bringing Up Baby, film directed by Howard Hawks (1938), screenplay by Dudley Nichols and Hagar Wilde 55, 132, 271  
Incendies, play by Wajdi Mouawad (2003) 211  
Inception, film directed by Christopher Nolan (2010), screenplay by C.N. 33  

Quiet Days in Clichy, film directed by Claude Chabrol (1990), screenplay by C.C. and Ugo Leonzio based on a novel by Henry Miller 304  
Strangers on a Train, film directed by Alfred Hitchcock (1951), screenplay by Raymond Chandler, Czenzi Ormonde, and Whitfield Cook based on a novel by Patricia Highsmith 161, 170, 171, 187  
Freaks, film directed by Tod Browning (1932), screenplay by T.B. and Waldemar Young 237  
Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, film directed by Steven Spielberg (1989), screenplay by Jeffrey Boam based on a story by George Lucas and Menno Meyjes 307  
Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, film directed by Steven Spielberg (2008), screenplay by David Koepp, George Lucas, and Jeff Nathanson 212  
Indiana Jones, series and character of an archaeologist adventurer created by George Lucas, Philip Kaufman, Steven Spielberg, and Lawrence Kasdan (1981) 278  
Inglourious Basterds, film directed by Quentin Tarantino (2009), screenplay by Q.T. 159  
Insomnia, film directed by Christopher Nolan (2002), screenplay by Hillary Seitz based on a screenplay by Nikolaj Frobenius and Erik Skjoldbjærg 300  
Intolerance, film directed by David W. Griffith (1916), screenplay by D.W.G. 271  
The Body Snatchers, novel by Jack Finney (1955) 235  
Beyond a Reasonable Doubt, film directed by Fritz Lang (1956), screenplay by Douglas Morrow 190  
Irreversible, film directed by Gaspar Noé (2002), screenplay by G.N. 46  
I Licked a Slug's Deodorant, play by Jim Cartwright (1996) 132  
Jai Santoshi Maa, film directed by Vijay Sharma (1975) 29  
James Bond, series and character of an infallible cinematic super spy based on novels by Ian Fleming (1962-...) 278, 303  
Jean de Florette, film directed by Claude Berri (1986), screenplay by C.B. and Gérard Brach based on a novel by Marcel Pagnol 66, 72, 179, 180, 181, 182  
Jeremiah Johnson, film directed by Sydney Pollack (1972), screenplay by John Milius and Edward Anhalt based on novels by Vardis Fisher and Raymond Thorp and Robert Bunker 161  
Johnny Got His Gun, film directed by Dalton Trumbo (1971), screenplay by D.T. based on a novel by D.T. 182  
The Toy, film directed by Francis Veber (1976), screenplay by F.V. 210, 246  
A Journal of My Father, album drawn and written by Jirô Taniguchi (1995) 122, 238
City Lights, dir. Charles Chaplin (1931), screenplay by C.C. 34, 55, 64, 180, 182, 241, 264, 281, 318, 321, 330, 344  
Lysistrata, play by Aristophanes (411 BC) 72, 142  
Midnight Cowboy, dir. John Schlesinger (1969), screenplay by Waldo Salt based on the novel by James Leo Herlihy 61  
Macbeth, play by William Shakespeare (c. 1600) 35, 82, 167  
MacGyver, incredibly resourceful hero of a TV series created by Lee David Zlotolf (1985-1992) 251  
The Infernal Machine, play by Jean Cocteau (1934) 269  
Miss Julie, play by August Strindberg (1888) 161, 276  
Mad Men, TV series created by Matthew Weiner (2007-2015) 168  
The Wizard of Oz, dir. Victor Fleming (1939), screenplay by Noel Langley, Florence Ryerson, Edgar Woolf based on the novel by Frank L. Baum 128, 157  
Magnolia, dir. Paul Thomas Anderson (1999), screenplay by P.T.A. 320  
The Hand That Rocks the Cradle, dir. Curtis Hanson (1992), screenplay by Amanda Silver 171  
A Doll's House, play by Henrik Ibsen (1879) 70, 72, 74, 80, 89, 95, 119, 123, 129, 142, 156, 158, 171, 182, 267, 276  
Spellbound, dir. Alfred Hitchcock (1945), screenplay by Ben Hecht and Angus MacPhail based on the novel by John Palmer and Hilary St. George Sanders 137  
The Imaginary Invalid, play by Molière (1673) 83, 215  
Wise Blood, dir. John Huston (1979), screenplay by Benedict Fitzgerald based on the novel by Flannery O'Connor 237  
Manon of the Spring, dir. Claude Berri (1986), screenplay by C.B. and Gérard Brach based on the novel by Marcel Pagnol 282  
The Merchant of Venice, play by William Shakespeare (1597) 154  
The March on Rome, dir. Dino Risi (1962), screenplay by Sandro Continenza, Ghigo De Chiara, Age & Scarpelli, Ruggero Maccari and Ettore Scola 232  
My Big Fat Greek Wedding, dir. Joel Zwick (2002), screenplay by Nia Vardalos 213  
The Pot of Gold, play by Plautus (circa 200 BC) 346  

Martha Jane Cannary, comic series drawn by Matthieu Blanchin (2008-2012), screenplay by Christian Perrissin 75, 143  
Mary Poppins, dir. Robert Stevenson (1964), screenplay by Bill Walsh and Don DaGradi based on the novel by P.L. Travers 83  
The Mask, dir. Charles Russell (1994), screenplay by Mike Werb, Michael Fallon and Mark Verheiden 37  
The Matrix, dir. Lana and Lilly Wachowski (1999), screenplay by L. and L.W. 47, 189, 209  
Maus, graphic novel written and drawn by Art Spiegelman (1973 and 1986) 46, 123  
The Taming of the Shrew, dir. Franco Zeffirelli (1967), screenplay by F.Z., Suso Cecchi d'Amico and Paul Dehn based on the play by William Shakespeare 92  
The Taming of the Shrew, play by William Shakespeare (1592) 92, 121, 122, 124  
Méli-mélodrame, short story drawn by Mittéï and François Walthéry (1977), screenplay by Mittéï 43  
Memento, dir. Christopher Nolan (2000), screenplay by C.N. and Jonathan Nolan 46-85, 241, 282  
The Nest, dir. Pierre Salvadori (1992), screenplay by P.S. 206  
Thank You Life, dir. Bertrand Blier (1991), screenplay by BB 2  
Mother Courage and Her Children, play by Bertolt Brecht (1938) 313  
Multiplicity, dir. Harold Ramis (1996), screenplay by Chris Miller, Mary Hale, Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel 31, 32  
The Metamorphosis, novel by Franz Kafka (1915) 116, 117  
Metamorphoses, epic poem by Ovid (8 AD) 12  
Manhattan Murder Mystery, dir. Woody Allen (1993), screenplay by W.A. and Marshall Brickman 118  
Michael Scofield, extremely resourceful and determined protagonist of the series Prison Break (2005-2009), created by Paul Scheuring 216  
Midas, Greek legend 12  
Midnight Express, dir. Alan Parker (1978), screenplay by Oliver Stone based on the book by Billy Hayes and William Hoffer 61  
One Thousand and One Nights, collection of tales of Indian, Persian, and Arabic origins (9th century) 84, 91  

Minority Report, dir. Steven Spielberg (2002), screenplay by Scott Frank and Jon Cohen based on the story by Philip K. Dick 33  
The Miracle Worker, play by William Gibson (1959) 72, 83, 122, 142, 143, 148, 279, 282, 303  
The Misanthrope, play by Molière (1666) 74, 77, 87, 119  
Les Misérables, novel by Victor Hugo (1862) 85, 123  
Misery, dir. Rob Reiner (1990), screenplay by William Goldman based on the novel by Stephen King 161, 171, 331  
Meet the Fockers, dir. Jay Roach (2004), screenplay by Greg Glienna, Mary Ruth Clarke, Jim Herzfeld, Marc Hyman and John Hamburg 184  
Monk, TV series created by Andy Breckman (2002-2009) 47  
Mon Oncle, dir. Jacques Tati (1958), screenplay by J.T., Jacques Lagrange and Jean L'Hôte 78  
My Father, the Hero, dir. Gérard Lauzier (1991), GL  
Monsieur Hire, dir. Patrice Leconte (1989), screenplay by P.L. and Patrick Dewolf based on the novel by Georges Simenon 309  
About Schmidt, dir. Alexander Payne (2002), screenplay by A.P. and Jim Taylor based on the novel by Louis Begley 54, 74, 77, 127, 211, 282  
North by Northwest, dir. Alfred Hitchcock (1959), screenplay by Ernest Lehman based on an idea by Otis Guernsey 19, 70, 74, 85, 171, 182, 188, 222, 224, 226, 303, 318, 328, 345  
The Fly, dir. David Cronenberg (1986), screenplay by D.C. and Charles Edward Pogue based on the story by George Langelaan 126  
The Fly, dir. Kurt Neumann (1958), screenplay by James Clavell based on the story by George Langelaan 126  
Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, dir. Frank Capra (1939), screenplay by Sidney Buchman based on the story by Lewis Foster 304, 327  
Mulan, animated film dir. Tony Bancroft and Barry Cook (1998), screenplay by Robert D. San Souci, Rita Hsiao, Chris Sanders, Philip LaZebnik, Raymond Singer, Eugenia Bostwick-Singer, Dean DeBlois and David Reynolds 143  
Mustang, dir. Deniz Gamze Ergüven (2015), screenplay by D.G.E. and Alice Winocour 72, 143, 235  
My Fair Lady, dir. George Cukor (1964), screenplay by Alan Jay Lerner based on the play by George Bernard Shaw 55  

My Father, the Hero, dir. Steve Miner (1994), screenplay by Francis Veber and Charlie Peters based on the screenplay by Gérard Lauzier 346  
Cape Fear, dir. J. Lee Thompson (1962), screenplay by James R. Webb based on the novel by John D. MacDonald 171  
Ninotchka, dir. Ernst Lubitsch (1939), screenplay by Charles Brackett, Billy Wilder, Walter Reisch based on the story by Melchior Lengyel 85, 98, 232  
No Country for Old Men, dir. Joel Coen and Ethan Coen (2007), screenplay by J.C./E.C. based on the novel by Cormac McCarthy 320  
No Man's Land, dir. Danis Tanovic (2001), screenplay by D.T. 24, 37, 41, 87, 232, 282  
We All Loved Each Other So Much, dir. Ettore Scola (1974), screenplay by E.S., Age & Scarpelli 128  
Day for Night, dir. François Truffaut (1973), screenplay by F.T., Jean-Louis Richard and Suzanne Schiffman 215  
The Night of the Hunter, dir. Charles Laughton (1955), screenplay by James Agee based on the novel by David Grubb 171, 179  
Oedipus at Colonus, play by Sophocles (406 BC) 90  
Oedipus, mythological character whose parents and later himself believed in a tragic prophecy concerning him 235  
Oedipus Rex, play by Sophocles (430 BC) 13, 29, 75, 76, 79, 90, 120, 122, 162, 179, 180, 182, 190, 237, 267, 303, 345  
I Spit on Your Grave, dir. Meir Zarchi (1978), screenplay by M.Z. 54  
The Birds, dir. Alfred Hitchcock (1963), screenplay by Evan Hunter based on the story by Daphne du Maurier 275, 289  
Omnibus, short film dir. Sam Karmann (1992), screenplay by S.K. and Christian Roch 19  
Explorers on the Moon, album (Tintin series) drawn and written by Hergé (1954) 158, 345  
We Will All Go to Heaven, dir. Georges Lautner (1976), screenplay by Francis Veber 149, 150, 157, 164  
No Trifling with Love, play by Alfred de Musset (1834) 183  
A Woman of Paris, dir. Charles Chaplin (1923), screenplay by C.C. 213  
Othello, play by William Shakespeare (1604) 75, 82, 171, 179, 180, 181, 207, 325  

Where Is the Friend's Home?, dir. Abbas Kiarostami (1987), screenplay by A.K. 72, 153  
The Lonesome West, play by Martin McDonagh (1997) 308  
Outlander, TV series developed by Ronald D. Moore based on the novel by Diana Gabaldon (2014-...) 142  
Outland, dir. Peter Hyams (1981), screenplay by P.H. 324  
Oz, TV series created by Tom Fontana (1997-2003) 135  
The Bread of the Poor, play by Jules Renard (1898) 161  
Panic, dir. Julien Duvivier (1946), screenplay by J.D. and Charles Spaak based on the novel by Georges Simenon 215, 309  
Scent of a Woman, dir. Dino Risi (1974), screenplay by D.R. and Ruggero Maccari based on the novel by Giovanni Arpino 61, 78  
The Godfather, dir. Francis Ford Coppola (1972), screenplay by F.F.C. and Mario Puzo based on the novel by M.P. 83  
Not One Less, dir. Zhang Yimou (1999), screenplay by Shi Xiangsheng 143  
The Shepherd and the Lion, fable by Jean de La Fontaine (1668) 44  
Donkey Skin, traditional tale 142, 289  
Peer Gynt, play by Henrik Ibsen (1876) 268  
The Father, play by August Strindberg (1887) 161  
Santa Claus Is a Bastard, play by Josiane Balasko, Marie-Anne Chazel, Christian Clavier, Gérard Jugnot, Thierry Lhermitte and Bruno Moynot (1979) 135  
Persona, dir. Ingmar Bergman (1965), screenplay by I.B. 161  
Tom Thumb, tale by Charles Perrault (1697) 291  
Philomena, dir. Stephen Frears (2013), screenplay by Steve Coogan and Jeff Pope based on the book by Martin Sixsmith 143  
Big Deal on Madonna Street, dir. Mario Monicelli (1958), screenplay by M.M., Age, Scarpelli and Suso Cecchi d'Amico 85, 208, 234  
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl, dir. Gore Verbinski (2003), screenplay by Ted Elliott, Terry Rossio, Stuart Beattie and Jay Wolpert 324  
Pirates, dir. Roman Polanski (1986), screenplay by R.P., Gérard Brach and John Brownjohn 54  
The Worst Week of My Life, TV series created by Mark Bussell and Justin Sbresni (2004-2006) 139  

Planet of the Apes, dir. Franklin Schaffner (1968), screenplay by Michael Wilson and Rod Serling based on the novel by Pierre Boulle 187, 282  
Platoon, dir. Oliver Stone (1986), screenplay by O.S. 35, 87  
The Player, dir. Robert Altman (1992), screenplay by Michael Tolkin based on the novel by M.T. 59, 67, 174  
Fail Safe, dir. Sidney Lumet (1964), screenplay by Walter Bernstein based on the novel by Eugene Burdick and Harvey Wheeler 170, 282  
The Lost Weekend, dir. Billy Wilder (1945), screenplay by B.W. and Charles Brackett based on the novel by Charles Jackson 56  
The Bridge on the River Kwai, dir. David Lean (1957), screenplay by Carl Foreman and Michael Wilson based on the novel by Pierre Boulle 154, 254  
The Bridge, dir. Bernhard Wicki (1959), screenplay by Michael Mansfield, Wilhelm Vivier based on the novel by Manfred Gregor 271  
Parenthood, dir. Ron Howard (1990), screenplay by Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel 68, 69, 247  
The Picture of Dorian Gray, dir. Albert Lewin (1945), screenplay by A.L. based on the novel by Oscar Wilde 127  
The Picture of Dorian Gray, novel by Oscar Wilde (1890) 126  
Steel Magnolias, dir. Herbert Ross (1989), screenplay by Robert Harling based on the play by R.H. 54, 142  
As Good as It Gets, dir. James L. Brooks (1997), screenplay by J.L.B. and Mark Andrus  
The Chase, dir. Arthur Penn (1966), screenplay by Lillian Hellman based on the play by Horton Foote 208, 236, 296  
For a Few Dollars More, dir. Sergio Leone (1964), screenplay by S.L., A. Bonzzoni, Victor Andrés Catena and Jaime Comas based on the screenplay by Ryuzo Kikushima and Akira Kurosawa (Yojimbo) 210  
For No Yes or No, play by Nathalie Sarraute (1982) 161, 238  
Prison Break, TV series created by Paul T. Scheuring (2005-2009)  
The Birdman of Alcatraz, dir. John Frankenheimer (1962), screenplay by Guy Trosper based on the book by Thomas E. Gaddis 209
A Straw Hat from Italy, p by Eugène Labiche and Marc-Michel (1851) 74, 268  
A Distant Neighborhood, album drawn by Jirô Taniguchi (2006), ed. J.T. 43, 71, 72, 325  
A Patch of Blue, film dir. Guy Green (1965), ed. G.G. based on the novel by Elizabeth Kata 182  
A Heart in Winter, film dir. Claude Sautet (1991), ed. C.S. and Jacques Fieschi 266  
A Childhood Under Occupation, documentary dir. Sergio Mondelo (2017) 17  
A Star is Born, film dir. George Cukor (1954), ed. Moss Hart, based on the screenplay by Dorothy Parker, Alan Campbell, and Robert Carson (1937) 346  
The Straight Story, film dir. David Lynch (1999), ed. John Roach and Mary Sweeney 54, 211  
A Special Day, film dir. Ettore Scola (1977), ed. E.S., Ruggero Maccari, Maurizio Costanzo 162  
A Separation, film dir. Asghar Farhadi (2011), ed. A.F. 62  
Up for Love, film dir. Laurent Tirard (2016), ed. L.T. and Grégoire Vigneron based on the screenplay by Marcos Carnevale 305  
A Man for All Seasons, film dir. Fred Zinnemann (1966), ed. Robert Bolt based on the play by R.B. 210  
Groundhog Day, film dir. Harold Ramis (1993), ed. H.R. and Danny Rubin 33, 38, 64, 68, 71, 72, 75, 76, 108, 121, 123, 129, 143, 164, 169, 170, 176, 192, 279, 303  
A Fish Called Wanda, film dir. Charles Crichton (1988), ed. John Cleese and C.C. 170  
A Ghost, film dir. Christian-Jaque (1946), ed. C.J., Henri Jeanson, and Louis Chavance 209, 210  
A Time for Drunken Horses, film dir. Bahman Ghobadi (2000), ed. B.G. 154  
Planes, Trains and Automobiles, film dir. John Hughes (1987), ed. J.H. 162  
A Streetcar Named Desire, play by Tennessee Williams (1947) 74, 77, 156, 158  
A French Village, TV series created by Frédéric Krivine, Philippe Triboit, and Emmanuel Daucé (2009-2017) 69, 206, 211, 296  
A Yankee Named Blueberry, short story drawn by Jean Giraud (1970), ed. Jean-Michel Charlier 253  

Uranus, film dir. Claude Berri (1990), ed. C.B. and Arlette Langmann based on the novel by Marcel Aymé 36  
The Remains of the Day, film dir. James Ivory (1993), ed. Ruth Prawer Jhabvala based on the novel by Kazuo Ishiguro 87, 205  
Victor Victoria, film dir. Blake Edwards (1982), ed. B.E. based on the screenplay by Reinhold Schünzel (1933) 37, 142, 237, 346  
Conjugal Life, film in two versions (Françoise and Jean-Marc) dir. André Cayatte (1964), ed. A.C., Maurice Aubergé, and Louis Sapin 344  
Life of Galileo, play by Bertolt Brecht (1939) 34, 64, 86, 148, 171  
The Lives of Others, film dir. Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck (2006), ed. F.H.D. 72, 83, 85, 117, 347  
It's a Wonderful Life, film dir. Frank Capra (1946), ed. F.C., Frances Goodrich, Albert Hackett, and Jo Swerling based on the story by Philip Van Doren Stern 29, 41, 44, 75, 95, 129, 147, 172, 177, 282  
Life is Beautiful, film dir. Roberto Benigni (1997), ed. R.B. and Vincenzo Cerami 169, 180, 238, 282, 317, 318  
Life is a Long Quiet River, film dir. Étienne Chatiliez (1988), ed. E.C. and Florence Quentin 174  
Waking Ned, film dir. Kirk Jones (1998), ed. K.J. 54  
The Old Geezers, comic series drawn by Paul Cauuet (2014- ), ed. Wilfrid Lupano 245  
Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, novel by Jules Verne (1870) 165  
The Visitors, film dir. Jean-Marie Poiré (1993), ed. J.M.P. and Christian Clavier 71  
The Visitor, film dir. Tom McCarthy (2007), ed. T.M. 155  
Ikiru, film dir. Akira Kurosawa (1952), ed. A.K., Shinobu Hashimoto, and Hideo Oguni 38, 84, 147, 282  
The Human Voice, play by Jean Cocteau (1930) 161  
Flight 714 to Sydney, comic album written and drawn by Hergé (1968) 315  
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, film dir. Milos Forman (1975), ed. Lawrence Hauben and Bo Goldman based on the play by Dale Wasserman based on the novel by Ken Kesey 61, 74, 77, 82, 83, 103, 123, 135, 168, 171, 174, 209, 235, 279, 282, 302, 342  

The President, play by Eugène Labiche and Edouard Martin (1860) 41, 61, 83, 156  
The Walking Dead, TV series developed by Frank Darabont (2010- ) based on the comic by Robert Kirkman, Tony Moore, and Charlie Adlard 169, 282  
WarGames, film dir. John Badham (1983), ed. Lawrence Lasker and Walter Parkes 170  
Welcome, film dir. Philippe Lioret (2009), ed. P.L., Emmanuel Courcol, Olivier Adam, and Serge Frydman 155  

Good Will Hunting, film dir. Gus Van Sant (1997), ed. Matt Damon and Ben Affleck 89  
Witness, film dir. Peter Weir (1985), ed. William Kelley, Pamela Wallace, and Earl W. Wallace 168  
Yoko Tsuno, comic series written and drawn by Roger Leloup (1970- ) 142  
Zelig, film dir. Woody Allen (1983), ed. W.A. 42, 43, 56  
Asterix and the Soothsayer, comic album drawn by Albert Uderzo (1970), ed. René Goscinny 171, 191, 251
